A method for investigating the entire earth is to use seismic waves.Earthquakes have a very scary image, but at the same time they are an excellent tool for investigating the inside of the earth.So why can we understand the earth interior with seismic waves?Because waves have the following properties. (1) The arrival velocity and location of a wave changes depending on the state of the materials it passes through. (2) If there is a liquid layer in the earth interior, a shear wave cannot pass through it. (3) Reflections and refractions occur depending on the boundaries and density changes of layers.Now let’s take a look at a shorter example of waves being used to “see what cannot be seen.” 1. Fish finder and sonar of submarines The deep sea is a pitch black world. You cannot make out obstacles and schools of fish lurking in the distance. By emitting sounds from a ship, and observing the repercussions, it can be known where obstacles or schools of fish are. (If there is an obstacle, the sound bounces back. The closer it is, the sooner the sound bounces back!) In this way the invisible deep sea can be made visible. 2. Inside the stomach of a pregnant woman Waves are also useful when looking inside a womb of a pregnant woman. By emitting ultrasound waves from a machine, and observing the repercussions, the form of the baby becomes visible. 3. Seismograph We have thus learned how even in our everyday lives, waves are useful for “seeing” places which cannot be seen. A device for emitting waves and a device for observing waves are necessary to make things visible with waves.It is not possible to artificially create waves the size of the earth. Therefore earthquakes are used as the wave source. The observation device is a globe-spanning seismic wave observation network. This observation network not only protects people from earthquakes, but also teaches people the figure of the earth.  You just need to remember that waves are a good tool for seeing places out of sight, and let us know the seismic wave velocity and density (pressure is determined from density) at any place in the earth. We will go into more detail on seismic waves in Week 1-3. 