 A high-temperature high-pressure experiment reproduces the deep earth interior in a laboratory.“Samples of material presumed to be from the earth interior” are subjected to compression and heat using a high-temperature/high-pressure generator.     The following information is needed to run an experiment for learning about the earth interior. 1) What is being compressed, and what information is being obtained? (What proposition is being made?) 2) Under what temperature and pressure conditions is the experiment being run? 3) What is the result being compared to? (Determine the truth of the proposition) Let’s now look back at what we have considered so far. What is being compressed? I bet you already know. An experiment will be run on “candidate materials for the deep earth interior” that are inferred from geochemistry. For example, if you want to learn about the mantle, it makes good sense to run an experiment on peridotite found in xenolith. Under what conditions should the experiment be run, and what should the results be compared with? The seismic wave observations we just discussed are what we need to know this. Compare the experiment results with the observation results for density and seismic wave velocity, and if they are consistent we will know that this material is found under these pressure and temperature conditions within the earth.   1) Can the desired high-temperature, high-pressure conditions be generated? 2) Is there an observational method for learning the desired information (density and seismic wave velocity) to a high precision and in a realistic time frame? 3) Have the special difficulties for this sample and experimental technique been overcome? The history of high-temperature, high-pressure experiments is all about these technological developments. High-temperature, high-pressure generation was made possible by the development of the diamond anvil cell, multi-anvil press, and laser heating techniques. It has been 60 years since development began in the 1950’s. In 2010 the Hirose Lab pioneered the reproduction of the entire earth’s high-temperature, high-pressure conditions using DAC and the laser heating technique. The temperature range reaches above 6000℃ and the pressure range above 400GPa. (More details to come in Week 1-3.)  Furthermore, observation techniques have dramatically improved through the development of synchrotron x-rays in recent years. In week 3 of this course, we will visit SPring-8, a Japanese synchrotron radiation facility. Look forward to it!  