How we know the “stuff (chemical composition)” of deep within the earth? It is a very fundamental problem, but it’s true that it’s difficult to obtain the answer. I’m going to now write about methods for obtaining the material deep within the earth.   1. Dig it up?  The deepest hole ever dug by humans is the 12.262 km deep hole on Russia’s Kola Peninsula. They began digging in 1970 as part of an earth science survey, and continued until 1992. They originally planned to dig to 15km, but the temperature in the earth reached 180°C at 12km, and it was predicted that the drill would stop operating, so further excavation was stopped. (180°C at 12km is actually relatively mild for a temperature increase in the earth interior. cf. Week 4) The boundary between granite and basalt was surpassed, but they were unable to cross the earth crust/mantle boundary. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kola_Superdeep_Borehole  A projected called “Chikyu” is currently underway in Japan with the goal of reaching the mantle by digging through the thin oceanic crust.http://www.jamstec.go.jp/chikyu/e/ 2. Take a look!  Is it therefore impossible to obtain peridotite? There are actually places on earth where rocks from deep within the earth have been driven up to the surface by past crustal movements. These are called ophiolite. By observing these places we can learn about rocks from 20 or 30 km deep. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiolite  3. Pick it up!  So how can we learn about even deeper places? The answer is to find xenolith. Xenolith is rock from deep within the earth that gets carried along by rising magma. In many cases it has been altered by heat, but not always. Xenolith made presumptions about the chemical composition of the upper mantle possible. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenolith    So how are the chemical composition of even deeper locations, and the ratio of elements in the entire earth estimated? We will learn all about that in week 3.  Think about this for a moment. Suppose a person discovered a rock from “a certain place” deep within the earth. Can it then be said that all places in the entire earth are like that rock? Of course not. A method for getting a general view of the entire earth is therefore necessary. Let’s take a look at that method in the next supplement! 