Hayabusa  I would like to discuss Hayabusa, the Japanese mission to probe the solar system’s origins. A ray of light appeared over the Australian desert at 10 p.m. on June 13, 2010. The Hayabusa probe had returned. Hayabusa was an asteroid probe. Flying to an asteroid named Itokawa, it descended to the asteroid’s surface, picked up samples, and returned. Along with demonstrating various kinds of technology, its objectives were to investigate materials from around the time of the early solar system and obtain data about planet formation. Launched in 2003, it was somehow able to return to Earth even while beset by various problems. Its flight distance was just over five billion kilometers. So it was a tremendous technological achivement and saga. Now, we learned from analyzing the materials that Hayabusa did such a splendid job of bringing back that Itokawa was a celestial body that served as the source for ordinary chondrites, the most common meteorites that have been found on Earth. In other words, it is to a certain extent a primordial small astronomical body. However, this was insufficient to learn about information about the solar system containing volatile elements at the time of its formation. Details and source: http://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/muses_c/ Hayabusa 2 With that in mind, there are plans to investigate an asteroid thought to have carbonaceous chondrites, which are even more primitive than ordinary chondrites. That is Hayabusa 2, whose objective is to obtain data about the time of the solar system’s formation. It is said that there are also plans to attempt to collect materials that have not changed much by using an impact device that will strike and expose underground materials. This mission may find much organic matter and water. Carbon and water are extremely important prerequisites that can be called the raw materials for Earth’s life forms, and there are hopes for numerous discoveries that will bring us closer to the origins of the solar system and life. Hayabusa 2 was launched at 4:22 a.m. on December 3, 2014, and its flight is proceeding smoothly (Video is below). And, on December 3, 2015, Hayabusa 2 made a swing-by. By doing this, Hayabusa increased its speed and succeeded to enter into orbit toward the asteroid "Ryugu". Hayabusa 2 is an ELSI mission. http://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/hayabusa2/  Video with information about Hayabusa 2 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TDbtQd4LeuA   Hayabusa 2’s mission schedule Year Event 2014 Launch 2018 Arrival at 1999 JU3 2020 Return to Earth 2020- Sample analysis  Details and source: http://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/hayabusa2/orbit.html 