Estimating the abundance ratios of Earth’s elements As you all know, the sun is at the center of the solar system, with Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune revolving around it. Despite all these celestial bodies, the sun accounts for around 99.86% of the solar system’s mass. As such, the abundance ratio of the entire solar system’s elements is believed to nearly match the abundance ratio of the sun’s elements.  The diagram below compares the composition of CI chondrites, a kind of carbonaceous chondrite (3-3-2), and the solar atmosphere(3-2-2)’s abundance. The diagram is a bit hard to understand, but the X-axis indicates the abundance of respective elements in chondrites and also the Y-axis in the solar atmosphere, arrayed in an xy-plane. I will explain this diagram in detail.The chemical composition of the solar atmosphere is plotted on the vertical axis and that of CI chondrites on the horizontal axis. It represents the abundance ratios of other elements when Si is 1. Being out of alignment above the straight line means that more elements are contained in the solar atmosphere than in CI chondrites.  Other than volatile elements and a few exceptions such as Li and Be, they match quite well. We know that CI chondrites and other meteoroids almost all come from what is called the asteroid belt, located between Mars and Jupiter in the above diagram. The major premise of Earth sciences is the thought that if the compositions of CI chondrites and the solar atmosphere nearly match then the compositions of Earth, which is located between the sun and the asteroid belt, and CI chondrites also ought to match well.  Example: Compared to Si at 1, O is 24 and Be is 4 × 10^-7 in the solar atmosphere.  I think you can see that there are two groups in this diagram that diverge greatly in the compositions of the solar atmosphere and CI chondrites. One includes elements such as N, C, and O that are out of alignment just above the diagonal line. The other includes Li, B, and Be, which are out of alignment just below the diagonal line.  C, N, O, and such are volatile elements. Volatiles are believed to have been lost when meteoroids were formed, and I believe you can understand that this is why more are contained in the solar atmosphere than in CI chondrites.  Conversely, when they are out of alignment below the straight line it naturally means that CI chondrites contain more than the solar atmosphere. For example, compared to the CI chondrites, solar atmosphere contain less Li, B, Be, which elements that are consumed to produce helium through nuclear fusion in the sun’s interior.  You can understand from this that although it is a vital issue, estimating Earth’s abundance of volatiles is difficult. 