Regarding theories about the composition of the Earth’s mantle  Various methods have been employed to deduce the composition of the Earth’s mantle. As previously noted in this course, we have not been able to dig a hole directly to the mantle to obtain materials. Even the deepest hole that we have been able to bore was only dug 12.2 kilometers deep. It was with that in mind that we turned our attention to mantle minerals that could be obtained on the Earth’s surface. For example, inferences have been made by investigating the composition of mantle minerals such as rock complex called ophiolite and olivine contained in xenoliths.   However, you get the feeling that it is a bit forced that these minerals that have been obtained account for the entire mantle, right? Moreover, most of the mantle minerals that have been obtained from xenoliths and such are minerals from relatively high in the mantle. With that in mind, experiments that combine measurements of seismic waves, high pressure experiments, and theoretical calculations have been conducted to estimate the composition. Specifically, substances of the sort that meet the criteria for seismic wave velocity obtained from seismic wave observations have actually been reproduced in high pressure experiments under mantle temperature and pressure conditions, and also have been obtained through theoretical calculations.  About the mantle’s standard composition The Earth takes the form of a layered structure. Naturally, the mantle is also a layered structure. So, what is the overall mantle’s standard (average) composition? Mantle materials that rise toward mid-ocean ridges partially melt, producing basaltic magma. On the other hand, residual solid matter portions form the lithosphere under the oceanic crust. Because the lithosphere is peridotitic, the deep mantle before producing basaltic magma is believed to possess the composition that is a mixture of peridotites and basalt. Based on that thought, a theoretical mantle substance that has a composition of mixed peridotites and basalt at a ratio of around 3:1 has been proposed. This composition is called pyrolite composition. Following table shows different pyrolite compositions. Actually, it is said that the upper mantle is likely composed of pyrolite because it has been confirmed that the composition of mantle minerals contained in xenoliths have the composition of pyrolite. Further study : Some models are proposed as a pyrolite composition and it's still an open question   Now, as to whether the lower mantle is also composed of pyrolite, there are some people who think not.  I will explain the Earth’s overall chemical composition in more detail at the end of this session, but to describe it graphically, they say that if you ground the entire Earth into powder and mixed it, it would probably be the same composition as the solar atmosphere. Moreover, other than some exceptions, every element matches in the composition of meteorites called CI chondrites and the solar atmosphere. This is why it is thought that the composition of the Earth and CI chondrites match, other than some exceptions. Of these, Si (silicon) is also said to match, but it is known that the Earth’s crust and upper mantle by themselves lack Si compared to CI chondrites. This is called the “missing silicon problem” (for details, 3-4 covers this in detail). That being the case, there are also people who think that the lower mantle does not have a pyrolite composition, but instead has a higher ratio of Si in its composition. Hearing this, you might think that it could be that the lower mantle does not have a pyrolite composition, but there is also the possibility that it does. The people who believe that the lower mantle also has a pyrolite composition think that it could be that the core contains a lot of Si because the crust and mantle lack Si.  There are still many things we do not understand about this issue. Further study: Solar atmosphere’s composition The solar atmosphere’s make-up is understood through observations of sunlight’s spectrum on Earth. Dark lines, called Fraunhofer lines, can be seen in places in sunlight’s spectrum. Elements absorb light at wavelengths unique to themselves. The dark lines that are observed are formed when elements contained in the solar atmosphere absorb light at specific wavelengths, so these dark lines’ wavelengths can be used to identify elements and their intensity elements’ abundance (fixed quantity). This is called atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). This method has provided an understanding of the solar atmosphere’s elemental make-up.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fraunhofer_lines  