Xenoliths provide strong circumstantial evidence for estimating the composition of the mantle. As we learned in class, magma sometimes pushes mantle rocks up to the surface of the Earth. These rocks are called xenoliths. Magma coming from the deepest recesses of the Earth is called “kimberlite,” a substance which contains diamonds. Kimberlite Igneous rock originates from the mantle. It is mainly composed of the minerals olivine and mica. Diamond gemstones are sometimes found in this igneous rock. The photograph shown below is of kimberlite containing a diamond gemstone. Diamonds are created in high-pressure conditions of 5 GPa or greater. Accordingly, kimberlite containing diamonds as shown in the photograph is thought to be created at locations at least 150 kilometers underground. Kimberlite magma penetrates through the mantle and crust at such a fast speed (the spouting speed is estimated to be as fast as 300 kph!) that the diamonds do not have time to revert to graphite. Among all xenoliths obtained by mankind, kimberlite is rock which comes from the deepest recesses of the Earth. The amount of information provided by magma becomes smaller the deeper we delve into the Earth. Therefore, kimberlite is a very important direct material from deep recesses of the Earth. Kimberley The name “kimberlite” is derived from the capital city Kimberley of the Northern Cape Province in South Africa. The photograph below is the Kimberley Mine, which is the oldest diamond mine. The mine is nicknamed the “Big Hole.”  The Big Hole of Kimberley Diamond Mine As implied by its nickname the “Big Hole,” the Kimberley Mine is a giant hole with a diameter of 500 meters, a circumference of 1.6 kilometers, and a depth of 1,097 meters. From the time that the first deposits were discovered in 1871 until the mine was closed in 1914, approximately 3 tons of diamonds were excavated from the mine. Currently, the mine has been closed and water has accumulated in the hole. The beautiful scenery has made the Big Hole a tourist attraction where people can experience the history of diamond mining. 