 In the video, we drew a phase diagram of peridotite. Here, we will describe simply how to read a phase diagram.  Phase diagrams have several variables. Recall 1-1-5. Important variables in looking at the Earth included temperature, pressure (corresponds to depth in earth science), and composition. Take two of these variables and make one the vertical axis and the other, the horizontal axis. Plot the most stable phase of the substance (in other words, the state most likely) for each condition to create a phase diagram. Phase here refers to the zone in which, if any part of a substance is chosen, its properties are homogenous, and can be distinguished from others. For example, the P-T phase diagram of water is as shown below. Follow the line where the atmospheric pressure is 1. Following it from the low-temperature side, it changes to water at 0°C (①) and to gas at 100°C (②). The phase diagram shows the state of the substance under those circumstances. For example, at 0.001 atmospheric pressure at 50 °C (☆), water becomes water vapor, and at 1.2 atmospheric pressure at 50°C (★), it becomes water. In this manner, when the temperature and pressure conditions change, the phase can change, even for the same composition. This is called phase transition. (We will discuss phase transition more thoroughly in 3-3-3.) 1 atmospheric pressure at 0°C in the chart below (①) is on the line between solid and liquid. At this point, both phases of water and ice can coexist stably. One of the objectives of high pressure experiments is to postulate a phase diagram of the deep earth.  Further Study: Here, we will touch on the very important concept called equilibrium. When drawing a phase diagram, it is crucial that equilibrium has been reached. For example, when ice is brought to 100 degrees, it remains ice for a while, but then gradually melts. Equilibrium has not been reached in such a state. If equilibrium has been reached, what phase it would become (or which phases can coexist) under a certain temperature, pressure, and composition condition would be unambiguous. Did you just think that the interior of the Earth is moving, in the first place, so it can't be in equilibrium? If you thought so, that is great. The reason that we can use the concepts of phase diagrams and equilibrium in earth science is that it is in a state of disequilibrium overall so that the interior of the Earth is moving, but, at the same time, the process is that small localities have reached the state of equilibrium from the standpoint of thermodynamics. This kind of equilibrium is called local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE).  