This time I will talk about X-ray diffraction (XRD) as a measurement method for analyzing minerals. When a specimen is irradiated with X-rays, the electrons around an atom cause X-ray scattering and interference. X-rays diffract only in directions in line with Bragg’s law, producing patterns that reflect crystalline structures (diffraction patterns). These patterns are unique to substances so analyzing them makes it possible to analyze minerals’ compositions. XRD is broadly divided into single crystal X-ray diffraction and X-ray powder diffraction. Please read this if you would like to know about Bragg’s law in more detail: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bragg%27s_law Single crystal X-ray diffraction Creating a single crystal sample and measuring it with X-ray diffraction is called single crystal X-ray diffraction. It is ordinarily carried out to determine the molecular structures of unidentified samples. Dots appear in diffraction patterns. These are called Laue spots. More details : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-ray_crystallography X-ray powder diffraction Measuring a sample thought to be an aggregate of single crystals with X-ray diffraction is called X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD). It is ordinarily implemented to identify unknown samples. The intensity of the diffracted X-rays obtained with XRPD is the sum of the diffraction from randomly facing single crystals in various directions. Diffraction patterns have spots with single crystal XRD, but with XRPD are concentric circles with dots that can be rotated along the central axis because they are aggregates of multiple single crystals facing in random directions. In qualitative analysis, the representative XRPD method analysis technique, the observed diffraction patterns are compared with the diffraction patterns of known substances to identify crystal compositions and phases. X-ray diffraction pattern configurations depend on the arrangement of the atoms and molecules that make up crystals, so diffraction angles and intensities change if structures differ. Two substances are deemed to be the same if a comparison of the diffraction patterns of an unknown and known substance confirms that their respective peak positions and intensity ratios match. This allows for unknown to be identified. In many cases, databases that are collections of known substances’ diffraction patterns are used to identify unknown materials. More details : http://serc.carleton.edu/research_education/geochemsheets/techniques/XRD.html 