Olivine undergoes phase transitions in which its density increases on the way toward deep Earth. You wonder specifically just how the structure changes, don’t you? I would like to tell you just a bit about that section here.  At this point I will provide information about the respective crystal structures of the olivine, wadsleyite, ringwoodite, MgSiO3 perovskite, and MgSiO3 post-perovskite that we covered in this course by viewing them from three perspectives.  Olivine (Mg, Fe)2SiO4 Major constituent mineral of the upper mantle (depths from 30 to 410 km) Crystal system: Orthorhombic SiO4 tetrahedra (blue tetrahedra) are not mutually linked. As can be seen from the image below, there are many gaps.  The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively. They are represented similarly below.  Wadsleyite (Mg, Fe)2SiO4 (modified spinel structure) Major constituent mineral of the upper mantle (depths from 410 to 520 km) Crystal system: Orthorhombic SiO4 tetrahedra (blue tetrahedra) are mutually linked. However, it is not that many SiO4 tetrahedra are linked to each other, but that, as can be seen in the diagram below, it is just that two SiO4 tetrahedra mutually share one tetrahedron point. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively.  Ringwoodite (Mg, Fe)2SiO4 (normal spinel structure) Major constituent mineral of the upper mantle (depths from 520 to 660 km) Crystal system: Cubic In this case the SiO4 tetrahedra (blue tetrahedra) are not mutually linked. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively.  MgSiO3 perovskite (Bridgmanite) Major constituent mineral of the lower mantle (depths from 660 to 2,600 km) Crystal system: Orthorhombic The Si coordination number (the number of oxygen atoms bonded with silicon atoms) has changed from four to six so the SiO4 tetrahedron that we have seen up to now changes to an SiO6 octahedron. Magnesium occupies the interstices among eight SiO6 octahedra. The green spheres represent Mg atoms. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6octohedra, respectively.  MgSiO3 post-perovskite Major constituent mineral of the lowest part of the mantle (depths from 2,600 to 2,900 km) In contrast to MgSiO3 perovskite, in which SiO6 octahedra mutually share an octahedron vertex, in MgSiO3 post-perovskite SiO6 octahedra mutually share an octahedron edge as well. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively. I have used VESTA (http://jp-minerals.org/vesta/jp/) for all the crystal structure illustrations. 