WHY DOES COMPOSITION CHANGE? The colors of granite and basalt differ greatly. The differences in color come from the differences in their minerals of which they are composed, that is, the differences in their chemical make-up. At this point, rocks that contain a lot of colorless, transparent minerals such as quartz or feldspar are whitish in color and, conversely, rocks that contain many colored minerals other than quartz or feldspar (that contain iron, for example) appear black. What produces these kinds of different colors in igneous rocks? That would be the different constituents of the magma that is their source and it depends on the temperature at which magma is formed. When the peridotites that are mantle materials partially melt, they start turning into magma from the substances that melt easily. Moreover, the things that crystallize easily crystallize first when rock get cold. The process that causes magma to change according to temperature is called igneous differentiation. As such, the compositions of the magma that is formed and of the original rock differ when igneous differentiation occurs. MORB is what comes from peridotites that partially melt under temperature and pressure conditions on mid-ocean ridges, generating igneous differentiation.  Next, what occurs in subduction zones? The same thing happens as far as the mechanisms are concerned. However, because of water contained in rocks, the temperature along a subduction zone could be low. It can generate many kinds of magma. Even in not so hot magma ( ~ 800 °C / 1100 K), a lot of quartz and feldspar, which are whitish colored (or transparent) minerals, remain as constituents that melt easily. This is the reason why granite appears white or has a light color. In this fashion, when the composition of magma differs, the igneous rocks created from it also differ greatly in appearance. Generally, many more quartz, feldspar, and other colorless minerals are created if magma contains a lot of silica, SiO2. Conversely, the ratio of colored minerals becomes higher when there is little silica and, for example, large amounts of iron. Further study: Igneous rocks are classified as felsic, intermediate, mafic, or ultramafic in order of the higher ratio of silica in the rocks. When the corresponding constituent minerals are arranged in bands in a figure, it would appear as follows.  The following is a summary of this section’s content and video materials.  1) Volcanic rocks are the source for many different kinds of rocks.2) The main volcanic rocks are basalt, formed from peridotites through partial melting under lower pressure on mid-ocean ridges, and granite, formed in lower temperature conditions. These two have different SiO2 and iron content and also differ in appearance.3) Water addition lowers rocks’ melting points. That is, the existence of granite is symbolic of Earth, a watery planet. On the other hand, basalt is also seen on Mars, Venus, and the moon. 