The periodic table is a tabular arrangement of the chemical elements, ordered by their atomic number (number of protons in the nucleus), electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties. The table also shows four rectangular blocks: s-, p- d- and f-block. In general, within one row (period) the elements are metals on the lefthand side, and non-metals on the righthand side. (Wikipedia) I will point out several useful things while looking at the periodic table. 1. Elements in the same group are similar Elements in the same group basically have the same number of valence electrons that contribute to reactions. Those effects are particularly striking in the smaller period. Hydrogen is special, usually behaving molecularly as a non-metallic element, but is said to become metallic at extremely high pressures.  2. Heavy elements were formed from stars’ explosions The elements up to iron are formed through nuclear fusion reactions inside the sun and other stars. Large elements with atomic numbers above that (Fe) are formed by supernova explosions when stars die. Elements’ abundance within the solar system is shown below. It can be seen that elements lighter than iron are greatly abundant and that Fe is more common compared to other heavier elements. The Earth’s mantle is primarily silicates (Si, O, Mg, Al, Fe, Ca, and so on) and the core is made mainly of Fe and Ni. Many elements common in everyday life have comparatively high levels of abundance. 3. Lithophile and siderophile elements Another type of information important to Earth sciences is the classification of elements according to whether they are siderophile. The traditional classification by Victor Goldschmidt is shown above. He classified elements abundance in the Earth’s crust according to whether certain elements had an affinity with iron or not. He believed that elements with an affinity for iron disappeared from the surface because they went to the core, and that elements with a lack of affinity for iron remained in the mantle and crust. He named these elements siderophile. Non-siderophile elements in ambient pressure also are able to melt in molten iron to a certain extent under high pressure. Research to investigate whether individual elements have an affinity for the mantle or core by melting rocks and iron simultaneously under high pressure has been ongoing. For example, hydrogen under high pressure behaves as a siderophile element.  Wikipedia’s periodic table article summarizes information about the periodic table, arrangement of electrons, and various ways of obtaining information from them for those who would like to know. Please take a look if you feel so inclined.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Periodic_table 