First, let’s review a bit about basalt and granite (1-4-2).  About igneous rock Igneous rocks are classified as volcanic or plutonic according to the differences in their structures when observed under a microscope. Volcanic rocks are rocks formed when magma cools rapidly, and when their structures are observed with a microscope crystalline and non-crystalline or amorphous portions can be seen. The crystalline portions are called phenocrysts and the other part the matrix. (There are also some rocks such as basalt whose phenocrysts are subtle to the point of being hardly noticeable.) On the other hand, plutonic rocks are rocks formed deep in the Earth’s interior when magma cools slowly, and have relatively large grains because all their components are formed through crystallization. Volcanic rocks are classified according to their chemical compositions, particularly how much SiO2 they contain.  Where do igneous rocks form? It is understood that igneous rocks’ composition reflects the conditions at the time they formed. We will consider where igneous rocks are formed from this point on. There are three factors that influence melting rock that is at high temperatures and creating magma. 1) Raise the temperature. 2) Lower the pressure.3) Addition of other matter. The interesting point here is adding other matter. Add water, or in other words, if rock contains water, we know from high pressure experiments that its melting point drops. Now, where does magma formation occur inside the Earth? (If you have time, please take a look at the section 2-3-4, “Plate tectonics” of the Week 2 text.)  The answer is, it occurs during the following changes to rocks at high temperatures.1) When rocks rise from inside the Earth (pressure drops)2) When water or other substances are introduced In other words, 1 occurs in mid-ocean ridges and 2 in subduction zone volcanoes. I have already mentioned that basaltic crusts form on mid-ocean ridges. There, convection can cause upper mantle peridotites to rise to shallow areas underground while still at high temperatures. When that happens, peridotites partially melt, creating the magma that becomes basalt, and that surfaces in the ocean. (What I would like you to remember here is that not all peridotites on mid-ocean ridges melted.) At this point, the rocks cool rapidly, turning into matrix- and phenocryst-type volcanic rocks. Conversely, basalt is defined as having basaltic magma constituents whose structure derives from rapid cooling. Basalt that forms on mid-ocean ridges is called “MORB.” Although it can be said that there are slight differences in composition depending on the place, there are very few differences. The Earth's surface is approximately 70% covered by ocean, so we can calculate that much of the Earth is covered with MORB. 