I think you realized that there are various kinds of rocks. Might these have formed separately, unrelated to each other? No, these rocks are mutually related to a surprising extent and have what you could even say have a "sibling relationships".  By what kind of processes, precisely, are rocks formed? Rocks are formed through these three types of processes—igneous activity, sedimentation, and metamorphism.  “Igneous activity” refers to the phenomenon of rock formation from magma that has formed cools and hardens. Rocks formed through igneous activity are called igneous rocks.  “Sedimentation” refers to the phenomenon of rocks formed when rocks that already exist on the Earth’s surface are ground down by rain, glacier, or other forms of erosion and these sediments are deposited at the bottom of oceans or lakes and harden. Rocks formed in this way are called sedimentary rocks.  “Metamorphism” is a process by which already existing rocks’ structures are altered by heat or pressure. Rocks formed in this way are called metamorphic rocks.  Rocks observed on Earth can be grouped into the igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic rocks mentioned earlier. What is important here is that the three types of rocks are formed while mutually changing through igneous, sedimentation, and metamorphic activities.  Everything begins with igneous rocks. Magma forms when mantle rock partially melts. The magma that has formed either rises and erupts at the Earth’s surface or slowly cools deep in the Earth’s interior, turning into rock.  The igneous rocks formed here are eroded by rain and wind, forming sedimentary rocks through sedimentation. Further, igneous and sedimentary rocks subjected to metamorphic activities change into metamorphic rocks, while metamorphic rocks that undergo igneous processes can turn into igneous rocks or change into sedimentary rocks through sedimentation.  Rocks’ forms are changed in this way through three processes. These are summed up in this diagram. The manner in which rocks change in this way according to the environment and processes is called the rock cycle.  