 Type Type Direction of motion and oscillation Arrival Key points In solids? In liquids? P wave Longitudinal wave Parallel In front Includes propagation of volume change ○ ○ S wave Transverse wave Vertical Behind Propagates twists ○ ☓  In general, by using the density of the medium and the elastic modulus that "describe an object's resistance to being deformed when a force is applied to it" *, the velocity of elastic waves that propagate through a medium can be expressed as  .  * Wikipedia "Elastic modulus" https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elastic_modulus Now we will divide the deformation of a body into two parts. What type of deformations do you think exist? Broadly speaking, there are two types of body deformations. Let's consider a rectangular parallelepiped-shaped body. The first type of deformation makes the parallelepiped expand or contract, changing the volume (maintaining the shape of a parallelepiped.) The other type of deformation does not change the volume, instead twisting the parallelepiped. The parameters for dealing with each deformation are K and .  K (bulk modulus): the difficulty for a deformation to shrink or expand a volume  (modulus of rigidity): the difficulty for a deformation to twist a material In both cases, the larger above 0 it is, the more difficult to deform the material is. The velocity of longitudinal and transverse waves, the two types of elastic waves propagating through bodies, can be expressed with the following equations. Longitudinal waves   Transverse waves   I would like to draw attention to three points. One, transverse waves are expressed using only the modulus of rigidity, the response to twisting. Two, Longitudinal waves have parameters related to volume change. Three,  is always greater than . (1) There is no twisting in a liquid or gas. In other words, if you cause a deformation, it will simply deform, and will not propagate to the surroundings. Simply put,  =0. Therefore transverse waves do not propagate in a liquid. (2) On the other hand, longitudinal waves have both K and . Having K means they propagate with the propagation of density, like sound waves propagating through air. So they can even propagate in liquid. (3)  is always faster than .  There was a lot to explain. Let's summarize about earthquakes. The two types of seismic waves are those with a parallel (longitudinal waves) displacement of the material, and those with a vertical displacement (transverse waves.) They are called P wave (primary wave) and S wave(secondary wave) respectively. P wave always propagate faster than S wave. P wave is a density-propagating wave, has parameters relating to the expansion of volume, and propagate even in a liquid. S wave only propagate in a solid. 