 Let’s lay out the fundamental properties of waves that we learn in high school physics. Waves have the fundamental properties of reflection, refraction, diffraction, and interference. The important ones for this course are reflection and refraction  Law of reflection When a wave strikes a boundary surface, the angle of incidence and the angle of reflection are equal. This is called the law of reflection. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflection_(physics)  Snell’s law (law of refraction) If we let the velocity of a wave in medium A be , the velocity of a wave in medium B be , the angle of incidence from medium A to medium B (and the angle of refraction from B to A) be , the angle of incidence from medium B to medium A (and the angle of refraction from A to B) be , the following relationship is established.  Also, if the angle of incidence becomes greater than a certain level, total reflection occurs. Additionally, reflection and refraction (excluding the case of total reflection) occur simultaneously. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snell%27s_law    Further study: Each can be explained from Huygen’s principle. Try proving it when you have time.   These phenomena occur at the boundary of mediums. The medium of a boundary is the point where the speed propagated by a wave changes discontinuously. Consider the Vs and Vp we discussed before. If there are layer boundaries within the earth, then (at least) the density there changes discontinuously. In that case, reflection and refraction occur. By observing them, the layer boundaries within the earth can be found.   A key point is that S waves do not travel through liquid interiors. Based on this fact, the inner core was discovered in 1936.  Further study: Shadow zone https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_zone   Example) To observe the layers with ⭐ marks The following is one concrete example of being able to discover a layer. The diagram shows how it was discovered by observing the earthquake that occurred at hypocenter A with a seismograph at B. In the following example, both the wave reflected at the surface as well as the wave reflected at position ⭐ were observed at position B.   Also, you can obtain the speed of the wave at each position from the time and path the wave took for its arrival. You cannot really think about layers in the earth interior with just one earthquake. There are many seismographs on the earth’s surface. (Example: Japan’s seismographs→As of 2006, there were 3,915 locations, including 3,315 belonging to local governments and the National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Prevention, and 600 belonging to the Meteorological Agency.) At any time, multiple earthquakes of various magnitudes are occurring on earth. Furthermore, various earthquake propagation paths are possible based on various reflections/refractions. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seismic_wave#Notation） If you satisfy all of these components, you can create a model for the P wave velocity, S wave velocity, and density of each position. There are actually some more complicated issues for creating an earth model (it cannot be found from just Vp and Vs). This is how the depth (pressure) vs seismic wave velocity or density from the one-dimensional model of earth, when we assumed the earth is structured into concentric layers, are obtained. This diagram will continue to show up. If you have difficulties, look over it again.   Further study: Take a look at PREM (Preliminary reference Earth model), a one-dimensional model of the earth. The table is here.  http://ds.iris.edu/ds/products/emc-prem/ Here is an explanation of PREM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preliminary_reference_Earth_model 