The waves dealt with in the earth and planetary sciences are called elastic waves. Elastic waves are caused by the force that attempts to return a deformed body to its original shape.  For example, try plucking a guitar string. If you pull the string with your hand, it will change shape, and when you release your hand, the string will try to return to its original shape. However, it returns to the original position with velocity, cannot stop and overshoots the target, then changing shape in the opposite direction from the beginning. When that happens, it continues to oscillate from the place it stopped on the opposite side, back to the middle, and makes a sound. Further study: Try solving it using the equations of motions. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vibrating_string  Are there such elastic waves around you? Actually, you are always being graced by them. Take sound waves. For example, you just heard my voice (or at least you should have.) Speakers make the air vibrate. When that happens, the air is shaken. If you take the time when the speakers are not making noise as the reference point, when the membrane of the speaker pushes against the air, the air pressure near the speaker becomes higher than the reference point. (On the other hand, when the speaker membrane is pulled in, the pressure becomes lowers.) This is how a change in air pressure occurs (the volume changes as a result.) The pressure change in the air near the speaker produces a pressure change in the air further away, and it rapidly propagates to air far away. Eventually it shakes your ear drum, and you hear a sound. At the point where a wave has propagated to, there are dense and less dense parts of air form, and each try to return to their original pressure, so they continue oscillating as was the case with the guitar string. The wave propagates parallel to the direction of motion. The speaker which first produced the change is the “sound source”, and the pressure change in the air is the “sound.” The waves which propagate the changes in the density of the medium are called longitudinal waves. Sound waves in the air are an example of longitudinal waves, and longitudinal waves are a type of elastic wave. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longitudinal_wave There is one more kind of elastic wave. A so-called transverse wave occurs when an elastic wave is propagating through a solid. A transverse wave occurs because the deformation (shifting and twisting) of an object propagates. When the wave propagates, the substance moves transverse to the wave’s direction of movement. Shifts and twists do not propagate within a gas or liquid (try “twisting” the air.) Furthermore, the bonds of the elements that comprise a solid are strong, so transverse waves propagate like the above-mentioned compression waves (longitudinal waves.) 