Crust (Depth: around 0-30 km, Pressure: around 0-0.6 GPa, Density: around 2.6-2.9 g/cm3) * ( ) Refer to PREM for the internal pressure and density. The same applies hereafter. The earth’s crust is the layer of earth surface that lies under everyone’s feet. It is a chemical boundary where the crust’s chemical composition differs from that of the mantle. There are two types of crust, the continental crust that extends beneath the continent and the oceanic crust that extends under the sea.   The figure on the top is a schematic image of the earth’s crust. The thickness of the continental crust differs by region but in general there are many regions with crust thicknesses of around 30-40 km. On the other hand, the oceanic crust is almost uniform with a thickness of approximately 6 km.   So, how is the crust formed? It is through igneous action. In other words, it is formed through the melting of rocks. There are plenty of rocks beneath everyone’s feet. However, since the crust originates via igneous action, we will end up with granite and basalt. (We will cover this in week 3.) The oceanic crust is made up of basaltic rocks and the continental crust of granite rocks. Basalt is formed primarily in the volcanic columns in the centre of the sea, i.e. the mid-ocean ridges, while granite is formed primarily along subduction zones such as the east coast of Japan, which has many volcanoes and earthquakes. This content will be the key in plate tectonics, which I will touch on in week 2. I will cover this in more details then. Here, l will just give a brief introduction of these two rocks.  Granite Basalt Photos Place it exists in Continental crust Oceanic crust Place it is produced Primarily along subduction zones Primarily in the mid-ocean ridges Density Approximately 2.7 g/cm3 Approximately 2.8 g/cm3 Further study: For those who would like to learn more about granite and basalt, please refer to the below. Granite https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granite Basalt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basalt 