Comparison of multi-anvil press and Diamond Anvil Cell "DAC" In diamond mines and similar places, you can find rocks (xenoliths) that came up to the surface from areas up to 200km below ground with the magma. However, you will not be able to get hold of rocks from areas deeper than that. In addition, even if you are to dig a hole, the human race has only been able to dig up to a maximum depth of 12km. Thus, through high-pressure and high-temperature experiments, the rocks and metals from the parts of depths beyond 200km are artificially synthesized and the characteristics of which are actively researched. To understand the inner structure and the origins of the earth, this type of high-pressure and high-temperature experiments are extremely important. Methods to generate ultra-high pressure are broadly divided into two types. One of which is called the shock compression. By colliding the test specimen with a material at high speeds, ultra-high pressure is created instantaneously. However, this method can only create pressure momentarily. The other method creates high pressure by applying force externally. Unlike the shock compression, this method can create high pressure statically rather than dynamically. Being able to freely control the temperature and pressure is very important.  Experiments have been done with the aim of statically realizing a state of pressure and temperature comparable to the earth centre. The multi-anvil press and diamond anvil cell have been used for this purpose.  Multi-anvil press  The ‘anvil’ in the multi-anvil apparatus is the high-hardness component that applies pressure on the test specimen (more precisely, the cell assembly). For the multi-anvil apparatus, we use cemented carbides such as tungsten carbide as the anvil when we want to produce several 10GPa of pressure and sintered diamond when we want to produce 30GPa or more. To be more precise, how do we produce pressure? For example, in the multi-anvil apparatus called “Kawai-style multi-anvil apparatus”, by putting together 8 truncated cubic anvils as shown in figure 1, we create an octahedral sample chamber in the centre. By inserting the test specimen here and pressing the anvils, you will generate a high pressure. A large pressure device like the one in the figure is used to apply pressure. In this device, currently temperatures and pressures of ~ 25GPa at ~ 3000K, ~ 80GPa at ~ 2000K can be produced. The highest reported pressure is around 110 GPa. However, the earth’s interior is a world of high pressure and high temperature. The centre has an atmospheric pressure of 364GPa, and can even reach a temperature of 5,000 degrees and more. Because of this, no one in the world had statically realized such a state of ultra-high pressure and ultra-high temperature in experiments. This is where the Diamond Anvil Cell comes in. Diamond Anvil Cell  By placing the test specimen in between two diamond gemstones facing each other and applying pressure, a pressure of 364GPa and above can be produced despite the small size. This pressure is much higher than that produced in the multi-anvil. In addition, diamonds are transparent. We can use this property for various applications, such as observing the test specimen when heat and pressure is being applied by the laser light. Heating by laser light can produce high temperatures of 5000K and above. By using this device, static realization of a state of pressure and temperature comparable to the earth’s centre becomes possible.  By using this device, in 2010, we finally became able to recreate the pressure and temperature conditions comparable to the center of the Earth statically inside the Hirose Lab. (*This diagram shows the temperature of the inside of the Earth, which we will examine in detail in Week 4.) Hirose K, et al. 2013. Annu. Rev. Earth Planet. Sci. 41:657-91 