The debate on what the D” layer is has continued for a long time. When someone mentions that there is an abnormality at the boundary of the mantle and the core, what do you think is the reason? One of the reasons available then is that the mantle turns into liquid at the bottom. While the liquid indeed exists locally, that alone cannot explain the abnormality. The presence of the post-perovskite structure found from a series of high pressure experiments at the Tokyo Institute of Technology put an end to the discussion. They realized that silicate perovskite changes to a structure called post-perovskite when the temperature and pressure increases further. So far, it is thought that the perovskite does not change beyond that. The reason being that the perovskite structure is in theory the densest structure around. However, that is for the case when it is crystallized with ideal-sized atoms. In reality, silicate perovskite is slightly crooked. As a result, denser structures exist. (In high pressures, it is easier for structures with higher densities to become stable.)   As the state changes, the thermal conductivity changes as well. Thermal conductivity is, simply speaking, an indicator for the ease at which the heat of a substance can be transferred. Heat can be transmitted via radiation, conduction and convection. For places where there is no convection, heat is transmitted by conduction. In the boundary between the core and the mantle, the density of the substances are rather different (the difference is 4g/cm3 or more). Because of that, heat can only be transferred through conduction. The higher the heat conductivity, the easier it is for the substance to transmit heat. How heat is transported in the earth’s interior depends on the difference in heat conductivity of the substances directly above the core because if minerals indicating high heat conductivity are present, the heat in the earth’s interior can be effectively transported around the earth.   Further study: http://www.spring8.or.jp/en/news_publications/publications/scientific_results/earth_science/topic21 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-perovskite 