Are you new to edX?  If so, you may want to take a look at DemoX before beginning to explore our course. DemoX gives you a brief overview of how you should start learning, how you can get in touch with friends from all over the world, assignment and assessment information, and more. It only takes about 30 minutes to complete this demo course. Don't worry; we will be here waiting for your return. So, go ahead and get acquainted with the platform! 
We would appreciate you completing the survey below to provide the course team with further information. 
 
Welcome to "Introduction to Deep Earth Science (DES) "  “Introduction to Deep Earth Science” is a re-release of a MOOC entitled, “Introduction to Deep Earth Science Part 1” run in Oct. 2015.  In this new release, “Plate Tectonics” has been added to the course content plus revised video lectures, additional reading materials and quizzes.We are going on a journey to solve the mysteries deep within the earth.Below are the three learning objectives or goals of this course. Acquire the fundamental knowledge necessary to understand the Earth's interior. Using deep earth science as a springboard, gain an overview of cutting edge science, especially the interdisciplinary study of the origins of earth and life.  Use deep earth science to experience the logical framework and thought process of a scientist. This course is comprised of four different weekly segments with three different content styles to help you reach learn the material.  Week 1. Introduction to the solid Earth Week 2. Plate Tectonics  Week 3. Chemical composition of our planet Week 4. Temperature of the Earth's interior Week 5. Earth’s water 1. Video Lecture, Summary, Quiz, Report, Appendix part The most fundamental, essential knowledge for understanding earth and planetary sciences is taught in this part. Please look over all of this part in order, from the beginning of the course. Beginners in this field will need to invest about 90 minutes to 2 hours each week to understand this part. The content has been arranged as concisely as possible. I recommend taking notes on difficult sections and sections that are important for overall understanding. For some diagrams and logical arguments, I particularly recommend that you stop the video and summarize them on your own to understand them. You should be able to handle the tests and reports if you watch the lecture videos, but to deepen your understanding you can use other resources such as the appendix, supplement, coffee brakes, and the field trip. Also, as the course progresses you will find it convenient to repeatedly refer back to the appendix for the unit conversion table and a summary of important ideas. Look over it as necessary. 2. Interactive part This part lets course participants actively participate in the class. For example, you can post on the discussion board. Another element of the Interactive part (though not specified in the courseware) is to write posts on the forum about material you did not understand in the lecture. The requirement for a good MOOC is that the class actively participates in the course. This includes asking questions, helping friends having difficulties, teaching each other difficult concepts on the course discussion boards, etc. I encourage you to actively participate in this MOOC’s activities! 3. Supplement, Further Study, Coffee breaks and Virtual Field trip In this part, resources are gathered for gaining a deeper, broader understanding of the course’s content. Take a look at this part as interest and time allows. On the other hand, it is not related to your grade for this course. When you are short on time, it is fine to skip it, but it is worth checking out for fun. Every week about one to two hours of materials are presented. In coffee break sessions, student teaching assistants interview the instructor, Prof. Kei Hirose. Your performance in this class will be assessed as follows.  Weekly Quizzes 80%, Final report 20%*Passing mark 60%   Finally, I want to request something again from all of you. I want you to actively participate in the course. I want you to even expect to make friends through this course. People from many countries across the globe are participating in this course. Location, age, and current job might vary greatly, but you are still a (huge) class. Speak up, help friends, and ask questions just as you would in a normal class. Topics aside from the course content are also welcome. This is your greatest contribution to the course. The TA’s and instructor are looking forward to meeting you. Let us all join together to make this a fruitful course. On that note, welcome to DES It may be difficult to understand various scientific concepts all at once. This course is devised in such a way that you start by studying the simple content first, then move on to deeper content in the following week. At that point, if you have not been given sufficient information, do not fret. After everyone has reached the next stage, the concepts appear again in more depth and detail. All of the learning in this class proceeds as if climbing a spiral staircase.  This course was prepared first in Japanese, and then translated into Global English. Please pardon the occasional misspelled word or spacing issue.  GeoS101x team 

 Quiz
 
      Which of the following are layers of Earth? (Select all that apply)
      

       Magma
       

       Crust
       

       Mantle
       

       Onion
       

       Core
       

       Volcano
       
Data on the three layers of the earth is summarized in the table below. Try using the data to imagine more concretely the form of each layer.     Source https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth#Internal_structure https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structure_of_the_Earth 
Video by JAXA  The beautiful earth floats alone in space. However, most of us only know about what happens on our planet’s surface. Looking at the earth from space draws attention to the vast unknown world that expands beneath the surface. The starting point of Deep Earth Science is to view the earth as a planet. It is a journey to deal with universal phenomena, pursue mysteries over billions of years, and figure out the miracle that culminated in our existence.  Now I will present some data that is necessary for enjoying this journey. You do not need to memorize everything right now. Return to it when you feel inclined and polish your “sense” for observing the earth.  
This course will mostly use the SI unit system. The units are converted as follows. 1. Temperature K is generally used for temperature. Absolute zero is defined with K as 0 (-273°C, -459.67°F), and the magnitude of K and the degree Celsius are equal.    2. Mass kg and g is used for mass. Pounds and kilograms are converted as follows. 1 lb = 0.453 592 37kg, 1kg = 2.2046 lb  3. Distance m and km are generally used for distance. 1km is equal to 0.62 mile, and 1 mile is equal to 1.609 km. 1 m is 1/1000 of a km, and 1 cm is 1/100 of a m. Going further, km3 and L (1000 cm3) are used for volume, and km2 for surface area. For atomic scales, Å (1x10-10m) is used.  Below are some derived units. 4. Pressure GPa is sued for pressure. 1GPa=1000 MPa, which is equal to about 10,000x the atmospheric pressure. 1bar = 0.1MPa≈14.5 psi (≈1 atm).  That concludes the introduction of the units which will be used in this course. Think of it as getting used to them, rather than learning them. 
The three important parameters used in DES Part1 are as follows. 1) Pressure 2) Temperature 3) Material (Chemical composition)  : What types of elements are in what state?  Paying attention to these three parameters will greatly aid your understanding in each part of the course. At this point I will provide some information that is meaningful for polishing your sense for pressure and temperature.   1. Temperature The temperatures dealt with in DES (in the range of 1000K to 7000K) are vastly greater than the surface temperature that you are all experiencing now. Just how high do you think this temperature is? Let’s start with a candle’s flame. The red part is about 1000K (±200K). So what about the temperature of magma flowing on the surface? This is also a little higher than 1000K. Iron’s melting point, which most people imagine is hot, does not exceed 1800K. (Iron evaporates at 3400K).The surface temperature of the sun is about 6000K. It defies our senses, but I think you understand that it is quite hot.    2. Pressure What is the pressure in the earth interior? The pressure at the center of the earth is 364GPa. It cannot be intuitively grasped. Now extend the palm of your hand. If you were to place about 100 Tokyo Towers, a symbolic Tokyo building, on top of your palm, you would reach this pressure. I’m not sure that helped you understand… This pressure is also equivalent to stacking around 10 million cars on top of a small coin (penny of 1 yen coin.) Now I think you are all wondering how we know about the inside of the earth, especially which the pressure is 364 GPa. That’s the topic of the next chapter. Let’s move on! 

 Quiz
 
      What percent of Earth's radius can humans dig?
      

       1/5
       

       1/50
       

       1/500
       

       1/5000
       
How we know the “stuff (chemical composition)” of deep within the earth? It is a very fundamental problem, but it’s true that it’s difficult to obtain the answer. I’m going to now write about methods for obtaining the material deep within the earth.   1. Dig it up?  The deepest hole ever dug by humans is the 12.262 km deep hole on Russia’s Kola Peninsula. They began digging in 1970 as part of an earth science survey, and continued until 1992. They originally planned to dig to 15km, but the temperature in the earth reached 180°C at 12km, and it was predicted that the drill would stop operating, so further excavation was stopped. (180°C at 12km is actually relatively mild for a temperature increase in the earth interior. cf. Week 4) The boundary between granite and basalt was surpassed, but they were unable to cross the earth crust/mantle boundary. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kola_Superdeep_Borehole  A projected called “Chikyu” is currently underway in Japan with the goal of reaching the mantle by digging through the thin oceanic crust.http://www.jamstec.go.jp/chikyu/e/ 2. Take a look!  Is it therefore impossible to obtain peridotite? There are actually places on earth where rocks from deep within the earth have been driven up to the surface by past crustal movements. These are called ophiolite. By observing these places we can learn about rocks from 20 or 30 km deep. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiolite  3. Pick it up!  So how can we learn about even deeper places? The answer is to find xenolith. Xenolith is rock from deep within the earth that gets carried along by rising magma. In many cases it has been altered by heat, but not always. Xenolith made presumptions about the chemical composition of the upper mantle possible. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenolith    So how are the chemical composition of even deeper locations, and the ratio of elements in the entire earth estimated? We will learn all about that in week 3.  Think about this for a moment. Suppose a person discovered a rock from “a certain place” deep within the earth. Can it then be said that all places in the entire earth are like that rock? Of course not. A method for getting a general view of the entire earth is therefore necessary. Let’s take a look at that method in the next supplement! 
A method for investigating the entire earth is to use seismic waves.Earthquakes have a very scary image, but at the same time they are an excellent tool for investigating the inside of the earth.So why can we understand the earth interior with seismic waves?Because waves have the following properties. (1) The arrival velocity and location of a wave changes depending on the state of the materials it passes through. (2) If there is a liquid layer in the earth interior, a shear wave cannot pass through it. (3) Reflections and refractions occur depending on the boundaries and density changes of layers.Now let’s take a look at a shorter example of waves being used to “see what cannot be seen.” 1. Fish finder and sonar of submarines The deep sea is a pitch black world. You cannot make out obstacles and schools of fish lurking in the distance. By emitting sounds from a ship, and observing the repercussions, it can be known where obstacles or schools of fish are. (If there is an obstacle, the sound bounces back. The closer it is, the sooner the sound bounces back!) In this way the invisible deep sea can be made visible. 2. Inside the stomach of a pregnant woman Waves are also useful when looking inside a womb of a pregnant woman. By emitting ultrasound waves from a machine, and observing the repercussions, the form of the baby becomes visible. 3. Seismograph We have thus learned how even in our everyday lives, waves are useful for “seeing” places which cannot be seen. A device for emitting waves and a device for observing waves are necessary to make things visible with waves.It is not possible to artificially create waves the size of the earth. Therefore earthquakes are used as the wave source. The observation device is a globe-spanning seismic wave observation network. This observation network not only protects people from earthquakes, but also teaches people the figure of the earth.  You just need to remember that waves are a good tool for seeing places out of sight, and let us know the seismic wave velocity and density (pressure is determined from density) at any place in the earth. We will go into more detail on seismic waves in Week 1-3. 
In this session, Student Teaching Assitants at Tokyo Tech introduce you to a playful experiment on Seismic Wave. Enjoy the video! Special Thanks Tokyo Tech Science TechnoScience Techno (Scitech) is an authorized club of Tokyo Institute of Technology ( Tokyo Tech ). Scitech plans scientific experimentation and craft-work classes at school, cultural hall and others in order to share the pleasure of science with a lot of people. See more information about Scitech on their website (in Japanese).　  
 A high-temperature high-pressure experiment reproduces the deep earth interior in a laboratory.“Samples of material presumed to be from the earth interior” are subjected to compression and heat using a high-temperature/high-pressure generator.     The following information is needed to run an experiment for learning about the earth interior. 1) What is being compressed, and what information is being obtained? (What proposition is being made?) 2) Under what temperature and pressure conditions is the experiment being run? 3) What is the result being compared to? (Determine the truth of the proposition) Let’s now look back at what we have considered so far. What is being compressed? I bet you already know. An experiment will be run on “candidate materials for the deep earth interior” that are inferred from geochemistry. For example, if you want to learn about the mantle, it makes good sense to run an experiment on peridotite found in xenolith. Under what conditions should the experiment be run, and what should the results be compared with? The seismic wave observations we just discussed are what we need to know this. Compare the experiment results with the observation results for density and seismic wave velocity, and if they are consistent we will know that this material is found under these pressure and temperature conditions within the earth.   1) Can the desired high-temperature, high-pressure conditions be generated? 2) Is there an observational method for learning the desired information (density and seismic wave velocity) to a high precision and in a realistic time frame? 3) Have the special difficulties for this sample and experimental technique been overcome? The history of high-temperature, high-pressure experiments is all about these technological developments. High-temperature, high-pressure generation was made possible by the development of the diamond anvil cell, multi-anvil press, and laser heating techniques. It has been 60 years since development began in the 1950’s. In 2010 the Hirose Lab pioneered the reproduction of the entire earth’s high-temperature, high-pressure conditions using DAC and the laser heating technique. The temperature range reaches above 6000℃ and the pressure range above 400GPa. (More details to come in Week 1-3.)  Furthermore, observation techniques have dramatically improved through the development of synchrotron x-rays in recent years. In week 3 of this course, we will visit SPring-8, a Japanese synchrotron radiation facility. Look forward to it!  

 Quiz a
 
    The liquid section of Earth can be detected by observing the non-existence of which wave?
    

       Electromagnetic wave
       

       Tsunami
       

       P-wave
       

       S-wave
       
 Quiz b
 
    CHALLENGE!
    
    We learned about the characteristics of P-wave and S-wave. This is a simple computational problem about these 2 waves.
    
    An earthquake which occurred in Japan has observed at the North Pole. In such a case, how long is the gap between the arrival of the first P-wave and S-wave?
    
    P-waves travel at 13 km/s and S-waves travel at 7 km/s. Both waves are deemed to travel in a straight line through the interior of Earth.
    
    The latitude of Japan is 30° North. Assume the Earth as a perfect sphere with a radius of 6,400 km.
    

       0.7 seconds
       

       7 seconds
       

       7 minutes
       

       7 hours
       
Japan is an earthquake superpower. The March 11, 2011 Tohoku earthquake should still be fresh in your memories. The damage from the earthquake and subsequent tsunami resulted in more than 18000 dead and missing persons, and economic damage of 25 trillion yen. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_Tōhoku_earthquake_and_tsunami Earthquakes occur due to the movement of faults. A fault is a gap in the surface. The accumulation of deformations in the earth cause existing faults to shift, and earthquakes to occur. The movement of a fault is the "focus" or "hypocenter" , and the waves that propagate from here are the “earthquake.”  If you would like to know more about the Earthquake, please visit the USGS website below.http://pubs.usgs.gov/gip/earthq1/http://earthquake.usgs.gov/learn/kids/eqscience.php The discipline concerning earthquakes is vast. The various fields range from seismology and tsunamis to disaster prevention and social science. However, DES focuses on how earthquakes tell us about the earth interior, and that is what we will delve into. * I would like to express my condolences to the victims of the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, and respect to the people still struggling in the disaster area, with wounds unhealed. I would also like to express thanks for the support from all over the world. 
The waves dealt with in the earth and planetary sciences are called elastic waves. Elastic waves are caused by the force that attempts to return a deformed body to its original shape.  For example, try plucking a guitar string. If you pull the string with your hand, it will change shape, and when you release your hand, the string will try to return to its original shape. However, it returns to the original position with velocity, cannot stop and overshoots the target, then changing shape in the opposite direction from the beginning. When that happens, it continues to oscillate from the place it stopped on the opposite side, back to the middle, and makes a sound. Further study: Try solving it using the equations of motions. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vibrating_string  Are there such elastic waves around you? Actually, you are always being graced by them. Take sound waves. For example, you just heard my voice (or at least you should have.) Speakers make the air vibrate. When that happens, the air is shaken. If you take the time when the speakers are not making noise as the reference point, when the membrane of the speaker pushes against the air, the air pressure near the speaker becomes higher than the reference point. (On the other hand, when the speaker membrane is pulled in, the pressure becomes lowers.) This is how a change in air pressure occurs (the volume changes as a result.) The pressure change in the air near the speaker produces a pressure change in the air further away, and it rapidly propagates to air far away. Eventually it shakes your ear drum, and you hear a sound. At the point where a wave has propagated to, there are dense and less dense parts of air form, and each try to return to their original pressure, so they continue oscillating as was the case with the guitar string. The wave propagates parallel to the direction of motion. The speaker which first produced the change is the “sound source”, and the pressure change in the air is the “sound.” The waves which propagate the changes in the density of the medium are called longitudinal waves. Sound waves in the air are an example of longitudinal waves, and longitudinal waves are a type of elastic wave. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longitudinal_wave There is one more kind of elastic wave. A so-called transverse wave occurs when an elastic wave is propagating through a solid. A transverse wave occurs because the deformation (shifting and twisting) of an object propagates. When the wave propagates, the substance moves transverse to the wave’s direction of movement. Shifts and twists do not propagate within a gas or liquid (try “twisting” the air.) Furthermore, the bonds of the elements that comprise a solid are strong, so transverse waves propagate like the above-mentioned compression waves (longitudinal waves.) 
 Type Type Direction of motion and oscillation Arrival Key points In solids? In liquids? P wave Longitudinal wave Parallel In front Includes propagation of volume change ○ ○ S wave Transverse wave Vertical Behind Propagates twists ○ ☓  In general, by using the density of the medium and the elastic modulus that "describe an object's resistance to being deformed when a force is applied to it" *, the velocity of elastic waves that propagate through a medium can be expressed as  .  * Wikipedia "Elastic modulus" https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elastic_modulus Now we will divide the deformation of a body into two parts. What type of deformations do you think exist? Broadly speaking, there are two types of body deformations. Let's consider a rectangular parallelepiped-shaped body. The first type of deformation makes the parallelepiped expand or contract, changing the volume (maintaining the shape of a parallelepiped.) The other type of deformation does not change the volume, instead twisting the parallelepiped. The parameters for dealing with each deformation are K and .  K (bulk modulus): the difficulty for a deformation to shrink or expand a volume  (modulus of rigidity): the difficulty for a deformation to twist a material In both cases, the larger above 0 it is, the more difficult to deform the material is. The velocity of longitudinal and transverse waves, the two types of elastic waves propagating through bodies, can be expressed with the following equations. Longitudinal waves   Transverse waves   I would like to draw attention to three points. One, transverse waves are expressed using only the modulus of rigidity, the response to twisting. Two, Longitudinal waves have parameters related to volume change. Three,  is always greater than . (1) There is no twisting in a liquid or gas. In other words, if you cause a deformation, it will simply deform, and will not propagate to the surroundings. Simply put,  =0. Therefore transverse waves do not propagate in a liquid. (2) On the other hand, longitudinal waves have both K and . Having K means they propagate with the propagation of density, like sound waves propagating through air. So they can even propagate in liquid. (3)  is always faster than .  There was a lot to explain. Let's summarize about earthquakes. The two types of seismic waves are those with a parallel (longitudinal waves) displacement of the material, and those with a vertical displacement (transverse waves.) They are called P wave (primary wave) and S wave(secondary wave) respectively. P wave always propagate faster than S wave. P wave is a density-propagating wave, has parameters relating to the expansion of volume, and propagate even in a liquid. S wave only propagate in a solid. 
 Let’s lay out the fundamental properties of waves that we learn in high school physics. Waves have the fundamental properties of reflection, refraction, diffraction, and interference. The important ones for this course are reflection and refraction  Law of reflection When a wave strikes a boundary surface, the angle of incidence and the angle of reflection are equal. This is called the law of reflection. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflection_(physics)  Snell’s law (law of refraction) If we let the velocity of a wave in medium A be , the velocity of a wave in medium B be , the angle of incidence from medium A to medium B (and the angle of refraction from B to A) be , the angle of incidence from medium B to medium A (and the angle of refraction from A to B) be , the following relationship is established.  Also, if the angle of incidence becomes greater than a certain level, total reflection occurs. Additionally, reflection and refraction (excluding the case of total reflection) occur simultaneously. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snell%27s_law    Further study: Each can be explained from Huygen’s principle. Try proving it when you have time.   These phenomena occur at the boundary of mediums. The medium of a boundary is the point where the speed propagated by a wave changes discontinuously. Consider the Vs and Vp we discussed before. If there are layer boundaries within the earth, then (at least) the density there changes discontinuously. In that case, reflection and refraction occur. By observing them, the layer boundaries within the earth can be found.   A key point is that S waves do not travel through liquid interiors. Based on this fact, the inner core was discovered in 1936.  Further study: Shadow zone https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_zone   Example) To observe the layers with ⭐ marks The following is one concrete example of being able to discover a layer. The diagram shows how it was discovered by observing the earthquake that occurred at hypocenter A with a seismograph at B. In the following example, both the wave reflected at the surface as well as the wave reflected at position ⭐ were observed at position B.   Also, you can obtain the speed of the wave at each position from the time and path the wave took for its arrival. You cannot really think about layers in the earth interior with just one earthquake. There are many seismographs on the earth’s surface. (Example: Japan’s seismographs→As of 2006, there were 3,915 locations, including 3,315 belonging to local governments and the National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Prevention, and 600 belonging to the Meteorological Agency.) At any time, multiple earthquakes of various magnitudes are occurring on earth. Furthermore, various earthquake propagation paths are possible based on various reflections/refractions. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seismic_wave#Notation） If you satisfy all of these components, you can create a model for the P wave velocity, S wave velocity, and density of each position. There are actually some more complicated issues for creating an earth model (it cannot be found from just Vp and Vs). This is how the depth (pressure) vs seismic wave velocity or density from the one-dimensional model of earth, when we assumed the earth is structured into concentric layers, are obtained. This diagram will continue to show up. If you have difficulties, look over it again.   Further study: Take a look at PREM (Preliminary reference Earth model), a one-dimensional model of the earth. The table is here.  http://ds.iris.edu/ds/products/emc-prem/ Here is an explanation of PREM: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preliminary_reference_Earth_model 
You can also “see” the earth interior in three dimensions as if looking at the inside of a pregnant woman’s stomach. The following image shows the result. Obtaining seismic wave tomography can be compared to solving simultaneous equations. Seismographs are set up at various positions on the earth’s surface. When an earthquake occurs at a certain spot, the underground information on the earthquake from the hypocenter to the seismographs is saved as the transmission velocity. The velocity profile of seismic wave (a) can thus be obtained. By synthesizing it with the velocity profile obtained from another earthquake (b), this mechanism indicates at what underground sections the seismic wave velocity changes. (The result is quite delicate.) The speed with which seismic waves propagate depends on the temperature within the earth. The lower the temperature, the faster seismic waves propagate (in other words, the area has not expanded due to heat as much as the surroundings, and the density is high), but the higher the temperature, the slower seismic waves propagate (in other words, the area has expanded due to heat more than the surroundings, and the density is low.) The development of tomography has led to much new knowledge of the earth interior.  Are you interested in more details of Seismic Tomography? This page is really good!http://www.iris.edu/hq/files/programs/education_and_outreach/lessons_and_resources/docs/es_tomography.pdf You can get a Seismic Tomography image just beneath you!http://csmap.jamstec.go.jp/csmap/ Do you want to read a scientific paper in this field? This paper is available :)http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Dapeng_Zhao/publication/257517893_Global_mantle_heterogeneity_and_its_influence_on_teleseismic_regional_tomography/links/0c96052b9001331328000000.pdf  

 Quiz
 
      What percent of the volume of the core is solid?
      

       4%
       

       14%
       

       69%
       

       96%
       
Crust (Depth: around 0-30 km, Pressure: around 0-0.6 GPa, Density: around 2.6-2.9 g/cm3) * ( ) Refer to PREM for the internal pressure and density. The same applies hereafter. The earth’s crust is the layer of earth surface that lies under everyone’s feet. It is a chemical boundary where the crust’s chemical composition differs from that of the mantle. There are two types of crust, the continental crust that extends beneath the continent and the oceanic crust that extends under the sea.   The figure on the top is a schematic image of the earth’s crust. The thickness of the continental crust differs by region but in general there are many regions with crust thicknesses of around 30-40 km. On the other hand, the oceanic crust is almost uniform with a thickness of approximately 6 km.   So, how is the crust formed? It is through igneous action. In other words, it is formed through the melting of rocks. There are plenty of rocks beneath everyone’s feet. However, since the crust originates via igneous action, we will end up with granite and basalt. (We will cover this in week 3.) The oceanic crust is made up of basaltic rocks and the continental crust of granite rocks. Basalt is formed primarily in the volcanic columns in the centre of the sea, i.e. the mid-ocean ridges, while granite is formed primarily along subduction zones such as the east coast of Japan, which has many volcanoes and earthquakes. This content will be the key in plate tectonics, which I will touch on in week 2. I will cover this in more details then. Here, l will just give a brief introduction of these two rocks.  Granite Basalt Photos Place it exists in Continental crust Oceanic crust Place it is produced Primarily along subduction zones Primarily in the mid-ocean ridges Density Approximately 2.7 g/cm3 Approximately 2.8 g/cm3 Further study: For those who would like to learn more about granite and basalt, please refer to the below. Granite https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granite Basalt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basalt 
Mantle (Depth 30-2900 km, Pressure 0.6-136 GPa, Density 3.4-5.6 g/cm3) Under the earth’s crust lies the mantle. *This boundary is called the Moho (Mohorovicic discontinuity). It is the surface observed at the ophiolite (Week 1-2-2). The mantle is a large rocky area. After the earth’s crust ends, the mantle spreads up to 2900 km below ground.  Here, I will only explain what type of layers are in the mantle and what type of minerals they are made of. I will touch on the rest in weeks 2 and 3.   Upper Mantle (Depth 30-410 km, Pressure 0.6-13 GPa, Density 3.4-3.5 g/cm3) Firstly, to the depth of 410 km from the base of the crust is the upper mantle. This can be inferred from the xenoliths that I mentioned earlier. Surprisingly, most of the upper mantle consists of just one type of rock, the peridotite. However, there is something even more interesting. What is the main mineral of this peridotite? Surprisingly, it is the gem peridot. The yellow-green minerals are sold in jewelry stores as a July birthstone. (Relatively clean, surprisingly cheap.) Peridotite has a density of about 3.3 g/cm3. Compared to the rocks that make up the earth’s crust, it is rather heavy. Isn’t it lovely that the interior of our earth is actually filled with gems?  Further study: I have been casually writing the word ‘minerals’ all this while, but it is necessary to define it properly. Minerals refer to substances that exist in nature that have regular crystal structures. They are pure substances. On the other hand, rocks are aggregations of minerals. The combination of minerals give them their characteristics. In other words, they are mixed substances.   Further study: Peridotites contain a variety of minerals such as olivine and pyroxene. In addition, rocks other than peridotites also exist in the lower mantle in reality.   Transition zone (Depth 410-660 km, Pressure 13-24 GPa, Density 3.7-4.0 g/cm3) If you continue digging into the earth, you will hit the next layer at 410 km below ground. The main minerals changes from olivine to what is called wadsleyite. If you go deeper, at 550 km the minerals change from wadsleyite to the mineral called ringwoodite. However, this boundary layer at 550 km does not really stand out in the seismic wave observation.   Lower mantle (Depth 660-2700 km, Pressure 24-127 GPa, Density 4.4-5.5 g/cm3) The next seismologically obvious boundary is located at 660 km. This layer is primarily made up of ferropericlase and silicate perovskite. The lower mantle continues from 660 km below ground to approximately 2700 km and takes up around 60% of the earth’s volume.   D” layer (Depth 2700-2900 km, Pressure127-136 GPa, Density 5.5-5.6 g/cm3)  In between the outer core and the lower mantle’s boundary surface is a thin layer of around 200 km called the D” layer. This layer has a large seismic wave difference from the upper mantle and has received much interest as the mystery layer. In 2004, the main mineral of this layer was found in the Hirose laboratory. That is the post-perovskite layer. In Week 1-4-5, we will cover this post-perovskite layer in detail. Before that, let’s look at Week 1-4-4 about the experimental techniques and high pressure experiments that led to the discovery of this layer in detail again. 
Comparison of multi-anvil press and Diamond Anvil Cell "DAC" In diamond mines and similar places, you can find rocks (xenoliths) that came up to the surface from areas up to 200km below ground with the magma. However, you will not be able to get hold of rocks from areas deeper than that. In addition, even if you are to dig a hole, the human race has only been able to dig up to a maximum depth of 12km. Thus, through high-pressure and high-temperature experiments, the rocks and metals from the parts of depths beyond 200km are artificially synthesized and the characteristics of which are actively researched. To understand the inner structure and the origins of the earth, this type of high-pressure and high-temperature experiments are extremely important. Methods to generate ultra-high pressure are broadly divided into two types. One of which is called the shock compression. By colliding the test specimen with a material at high speeds, ultra-high pressure is created instantaneously. However, this method can only create pressure momentarily. The other method creates high pressure by applying force externally. Unlike the shock compression, this method can create high pressure statically rather than dynamically. Being able to freely control the temperature and pressure is very important.  Experiments have been done with the aim of statically realizing a state of pressure and temperature comparable to the earth centre. The multi-anvil press and diamond anvil cell have been used for this purpose.  Multi-anvil press  The ‘anvil’ in the multi-anvil apparatus is the high-hardness component that applies pressure on the test specimen (more precisely, the cell assembly). For the multi-anvil apparatus, we use cemented carbides such as tungsten carbide as the anvil when we want to produce several 10GPa of pressure and sintered diamond when we want to produce 30GPa or more. To be more precise, how do we produce pressure? For example, in the multi-anvil apparatus called “Kawai-style multi-anvil apparatus”, by putting together 8 truncated cubic anvils as shown in figure 1, we create an octahedral sample chamber in the centre. By inserting the test specimen here and pressing the anvils, you will generate a high pressure. A large pressure device like the one in the figure is used to apply pressure. In this device, currently temperatures and pressures of ~ 25GPa at ~ 3000K, ~ 80GPa at ~ 2000K can be produced. The highest reported pressure is around 110 GPa. However, the earth’s interior is a world of high pressure and high temperature. The centre has an atmospheric pressure of 364GPa, and can even reach a temperature of 5,000 degrees and more. Because of this, no one in the world had statically realized such a state of ultra-high pressure and ultra-high temperature in experiments. This is where the Diamond Anvil Cell comes in. Diamond Anvil Cell  By placing the test specimen in between two diamond gemstones facing each other and applying pressure, a pressure of 364GPa and above can be produced despite the small size. This pressure is much higher than that produced in the multi-anvil. In addition, diamonds are transparent. We can use this property for various applications, such as observing the test specimen when heat and pressure is being applied by the laser light. Heating by laser light can produce high temperatures of 5000K and above. By using this device, static realization of a state of pressure and temperature comparable to the earth’s centre becomes possible.  By using this device, in 2010, we finally became able to recreate the pressure and temperature conditions comparable to the center of the Earth statically inside the Hirose Lab. (*This diagram shows the temperature of the inside of the Earth, which we will examine in detail in Week 4.) Hirose K, et al. 2013. Annu. Rev. Earth Planet. Sci. 41:657-91 
The debate on what the D” layer is has continued for a long time. When someone mentions that there is an abnormality at the boundary of the mantle and the core, what do you think is the reason? One of the reasons available then is that the mantle turns into liquid at the bottom. While the liquid indeed exists locally, that alone cannot explain the abnormality. The presence of the post-perovskite structure found from a series of high pressure experiments at the Tokyo Institute of Technology put an end to the discussion. They realized that silicate perovskite changes to a structure called post-perovskite when the temperature and pressure increases further. So far, it is thought that the perovskite does not change beyond that. The reason being that the perovskite structure is in theory the densest structure around. However, that is for the case when it is crystallized with ideal-sized atoms. In reality, silicate perovskite is slightly crooked. As a result, denser structures exist. (In high pressures, it is easier for structures with higher densities to become stable.)   As the state changes, the thermal conductivity changes as well. Thermal conductivity is, simply speaking, an indicator for the ease at which the heat of a substance can be transferred. Heat can be transmitted via radiation, conduction and convection. For places where there is no convection, heat is transmitted by conduction. In the boundary between the core and the mantle, the density of the substances are rather different (the difference is 4g/cm3 or more). Because of that, heat can only be transferred through conduction. The higher the heat conductivity, the easier it is for the substance to transmit heat. How heat is transported in the earth’s interior depends on the difference in heat conductivity of the substances directly above the core because if minerals indicating high heat conductivity are present, the heat in the earth’s interior can be effectively transported around the earth.   Further study: http://www.spring8.or.jp/en/news_publications/publications/scientific_results/earth_science/topic21 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-perovskite 
Core (Depth 2900-6400 km, Pressure 136-364 GPa, Density 9.9-13 g/cm3) Outer core (Depth 2900-5150 km, Pressure 136-329 GPa, Density 9.9-12.2 g/cm3) At the depth of 2900 km, there exists a core-mantle boundary. At a depth 2900-5150 km, there is the outer core made of iron, nickel and other light elements. It is liquid, and in order for convection to occur, it is believed to have a homogeneous chemical composition. The core’s convection provides the earth with its magnetic field. The speed is said to be the same as the walking speed of people, and a cylindrical flow surrounds the core. Due to the dynamo effect (electromagnetic induction), the earth’s magnetic field is formed. This protects life on Earth from the dangerous solar wind and cosmic rays.   Further study: Dynamo theory https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamo_theory   Inner core (Depth 5150-6400 km, Pressure 329-363 GPa, Density 12.7-13.1 g/cm3) At 5150 km below ground, we finally arrive at the earth’s deepest part, the inner core. Similar to the outer core, it is thought to be made of metals, predominantly iron. However, it is a solid. Surprisingly, we know that it is rotating faster than the surface of the earth and that the nature differs under the Western and Eastern hemisphere. In addition, there is a theory where the dynamo’s flow is adjusted and a strong magnetic field is formed due to the existence of an inner core.    There are still a lot of mysteries surrounding the earth’s core.  For example, What is the core temperature? →Week 4 What are light elements? →Week 3, 5 (There are plenty more questions …) We will touch upon them now and then in the future. I touched on convection at the end of the lecture. Next week, when we determine the earth’s temperature structure, we will look at it in detail in the video. Look forward to it! 
In coffee breaks, the teaching assistants ask questions to Prof. Hirose. Please watch with your favorite drink, coffee, tea, and relax.  
This week you will learn about the Earth's Interior.Here are the learning objectives for this week. Upon the completion of this week's material, you will be able to;  explain the overview of the structure and conditions inside the Earth. We hope you enjoy your journey this week! -Geos101x team 
These quizzes are a kind of introduction for what we will learn in GeoS 101x, Introduction to Deep Earth Science. Please try them with your recent knowledge about Earth Science. Take it easy... This session is not scored. 

 Q1
 
   Which of the following figure dose represent Earth's structure?
   

       a
       

       b
       

       c
       
 Q2
 
      What percent of Earth's radius have humans been able to dig?
      

       2%
       

       0.2%
       

       0.02%
       

       0.002%
       
 Q3
 
   What percent of the volume of the Earth is liquid? (Please choose the answer from multiple of 5 like 5, 10, 15, ..., 95, 100. You don't have to put "%" in your answer.)
   
 
 Q4
 
      What would be the temprature at the center of the Earth?
      

       Around 1200 °C / 2200 °F
       

       Around 6000 °C / 10800 °F
       

       Around 12000 °C / 21600 °F
       

       Around 60000 °C / 108000 °F
       
 Q5
 
      Which material(s) could be useful to estimate the chemical compositon of the whole Earth.
      

       Solar atmosphere
       

       Sea water
       

       Xenolith (A rock from a deep part of the Earth)
       

       A grain of sand captured in merteorite by satelites
       

       Human body
       
    Note: Make sure you select all of the correct options—there may be more than one!
    
 Q6
 
      What happened to most of the water which came to the Earth?
      

       Most evaporated, leaving only the oceans
       

       It was incorporated deep inside of the Earth
       

       It is absorbed in surface rocks of the Earth
       

       It is dissolved in Earth's atmosphere
       
Explore the Origins and Evolution of Earth and LifeHow was the Earth born? When and where did life originate and how did it evolve?The ELSI is a research center in the World Premier International Research Center Initiative (WPI) launched by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT). Attempting to solve the mystery of the origin and evolution of life, ELSI researchers investigate the primordial　environment of the Earth with its implications for life and its possibility on other planets. Prof. Kei Hirose is the director of ELSI. For more information visit ELSI website Further Information about ELSI Leaflet (8 pages) PDF file(24.5MB) Brochure (22 pages) PDF file(5.2MB) 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE Week 1 Quiz Here is the quiz for Week 1. Read the information below and answer the questions. You can always go back to the previous weeks to review what you've learned so far. 

 Q1
 
    State the major component of the crust and the state of the substance.
    
 
 Q2
 
    State the major component of the mantle and the state of the substance.
    
 
 Q3
 
    State the major component of the outer core and the state of the substance.
    
 
 Q4
 
    State the major component of the inner core and the state of the substance.
    
 
 Q5
 
      How large proportion is melting inside the Earth?
      

       15%
       

       40%
       

       60%
       

       85%
       
Download the summary (PDF) This link is available for Chrome, Firefox and Opera If you can't download the file from the above link, then right-click and choose "Download Linked File"  

 Quiz
 
    According to the lecture, how are plate boundaries defined?
    

       hypocentral distribution of earthquakes
       

       borders of each country
       

       boundary of the sea and land
       

       along the river
       
  This week's theme is plate tectonics, a subject which deals with the movement of the Earth's surface.   In Week 1, we learned that the Earth is divided into three main layers. These layers are classified by differences in chemical composition (this will be studied in detail in Week 3). However, plates are defined strictly by differences in hardness; in other words, differences in viscosity. It should be noted that there is no difference in composition. When classifying the Earth's surface by differences in hardness, hard sections which do not possess fluidity are called the “lithosphere,” while relatively soft sections possessing fluidity are called the “asthenosphere.”   The following figure summarizes these differences in chemical composition and viscosity.     Stated differently, the hard lithosphere floats on the soft asthenosphere. This hard lithosphere (plates) is broadly divided into 14 to 15 plates, each one of which moves independently. 
Have you ever used a compass? When using a compass, you always know what direction is north. Accordingly, you may believe that north is always in the same direction. However, in actuality, the Earth's true north is not always in the same place. Geomagnetic field The Earth is a giant magnet. Using a compass enables you to know the direction of the Earth's magnetic field. Since the Earth is round, it is necessary to face the ground in order to accurately assess the Earth's magnetic field. At this time, the angle of the horizontal direction in contrast to the horizontal plane is called “declination,” while the angle of the vertical direction in contrast to the horizontal plane is called “inclination.”  Changing geomagnetic field Changes in the direction of the Earth's magnetic field were first indicated by Henry Gellibrand in 1635. Gellibrand reported that declination in London had changed by 7° over a 50-year period. These changes in the Earth's magnetic field are called “geomagnetic secular variation.” The declination direction and intensity of the magnetic field are known to change throughout the world, not just in England. Currently, scientists are observing geomagnetic secular variation by measuring the Earth's magnetic field at locations throughout the world. Geomagnetic reversals Generally speaking, the direction of the Earth's magnetic field at a certain point in time is saved in the Earth's igneous rock when the rock hardens. In the 1920s, Motonori Matsuyama reported the existence of rocks which had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's current magnetic field. However, this surprising discovery received little attention at that time. In the 1950s, scientists discovered rocks which became magnetized in the opposite direction of the magnetic field in their laboratory environment. It was thought that this phenomenon could explain the existence of rocks which had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's magnetic field. However, upon further examination, scientists learned that this phenomenon only occurred under limited conditions. As a result, it was not possible to explain why rocks magnetized in the opposite direction exist in various locations throughout the world. In the 1950s, research groups from across the world examined rocks in locations throughout the earth. It was discovered that rocks magnetized in the opposite direction exist throughout the world. Furthermore, it was clarified that these oppositely-magnetized rocks were from the end of the third period and the beginning of the fourth period on the geological time scale (GTS). These rocks were not found at one specific location; rather, rocks which are from the same time period and had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's current magnetic field were found throughout the world. This led scientists to believe that the Earth's magnetic field was reversed at some point in time. In the 1960s, radiometric dating was established, making it possible to determine with a certain degree of accuracy when rocks had been formed. Scientists used radiometric dating to analyze rocks which had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's current magnetic field. It was discovered that the direction of the Earth's magnetic field had reversed many times. Currently, the reason for reversal of the geomagnetic field is not known. Nevertheless, based on a variety of proofs, many scientists believe with certainty that the direction of the Earth's magnetic field has been reversed. 
Substances which are attracted to magnets and possess magnetic force themselves are called “ferromagnetics.” Substances classified as ferromagnetics include ferrite, iron, cobalt, nickel, and related alloys.   At the end of the 1800s, the French physicist Pierre Curie discovered that ferromagnetics lose their magnetism when reaching a certain temperature. This temperature is known as the “Curie Temperature” and differs for each ferromagnetic substance. It is known that placing ferromagnetics in an environment with a magnetic field will cause the ferromagnetics to become magnetized. Igneous rock contains iron oxide, iron sulfide and other minerals which possess ferromagnetic properties. Therefore, when high-temperature magma crystallizes, ferromagnetic minerals which have fallen below the Curie temperature record the magnetic field (geomagnetic field) to which they are exposed at that time. Magnetism recorded in this way is called “remanent magnetism.” Together with crystallization dating of rock, remanent magnetism has contributed greatly to the field of paleomagnetism. Table 1. Curie temperature of ferromagnetic materials (Data are from National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Chronological Scientific Tables, Maruzen, (2016).)    

 Quiz
 
    What percentage of global volcanic activity occurs at mid-ocean ridges?
    

       25％
       

       50%
       

       75%
       

       100%
       
In section 2-2-1, we learned how scientists discovered that the seafloor is moving based on the results of analyzing the period in which the seafloor was formed. Now, how is it possible to determine the period in which the seafloor was formed? This section introduces three dating methods. Radioactive dating method Radioactive elements change into different elements after a certain period of time passes. This phenomenon is known as “radioactive decay.” Radioactive dating is a method which uses the phenomenon of radioactive decay to measure the formation period of rocks. In this lesson, we will learn about the potassium-argon dating method (K-Ar method) which uses substances undergoing radioactive decay from 40K to 40Ar. Rocks are composed from a variety of minerals. Each of these minerals takes in a different amount of K when being formed. Conversely, Ar is a gas and is not contained in rocks when they are formed by magma hardening. Accordingly, at the time when rocks were formed (T years ago), the quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar in each mineral is represented by the blue points shown in Figure 1. On the other hand, the quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar in rocks which can be obtained today reflects the result of radioactive decay from 40K to 40Ar occurring over a period of T years. When compared to the time at which the rocks were originally formed, 40K decreases and 40Ar increases. This results in a quantitative ratio like that shown by the red points in figure below. The ratio of radioactive decay from 40K to 40Ar is determined by the length of time. Therefore, we can determine when a rock was formed by measuring the current quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar. The horizontal axis represents the amount of 40K in the minerals, while the vertical axis represents the amount of 40Ar in the minerals. The quantity of 40K and 40Ar contained in minerals A, B, C, D, and E within the rock changes from blue points to red points over T years.  If a rock does not lose 40K and 40Ar from the time it is formed until the present day, the quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar for minerals contained in that rock should form a straight line. This straight line is called an “isochron.” The quantity of 40Ar in relation to 40K increases as time passes from the formation of the rock and the slope of the isochron increases. Dating methods utilizing the isochron slope are widely used in other radioactive dating methods, not just the K-Ar method.  Radiolarian dating method The period in which sedimentary rock was formed can be determined from fossils contained in that rock. In particular, the term “index fossils” is used to refer to fossils which provide detailed knowledge regarding the geological age of the location where the fossils were excavated. Dating methods using index fossils were widely used in the field of geology prior to the establishment of the radioactive dating method.  Radiolarians are a group of protozoans which appeared in the Cambrian Period of the Paleozoic Era. The shell and skeleton of radiolarians is composed of silicon dioxide and is easily fossilized. These fossils are found in locations throughout the world. Radiolarians quickly evolve to form variable skeletal appearances through the geologic time(figure below), which make them an extremely effective type of index fossil. Dating using radiolarians makes it possible to determine the period with a high degree of accuracy that is within about one million years or several hundred thousand years. Evolution of radiolarian (light microscopic images) with geologic ages. Names of radiolarian’s groups are also shown.  Source: Noritoshi Suzuki (Tohoku Univ.)  Geomagnetic field dating The Earth's magnetic field has changed in each period from ancient times until the present day. Through remanent magnetism, rocks retain information on the geomagnetic field at the time of their formation. Accordingly, if it is possible to use methods such as the aforementioned radioactive dating method or radiolarian dating method to determine the period in which rocks were formed, it is also possible to understanding changes in the past geomagnetic field. The curve formulated by using the direction of the past geomagnetic field to determine the position of the poles and summarizing that information by period is called “apparent polar wandering curve.” A continent has a unique apparent polar wandering path, because the continent individually moved in the past. It becomes possible to discuss how a continent moved in the past by drawing the apparent polar wandering path. Geomagnetic field dating is a method that uses remanent magnetism of a rock compared with the apparent polar wandering path of continent which includes the rock to determine the rock crystallization age. This method is useful when other dating methods such as radioactive dating and radiolarian dating are hard to be applied to the rock. APWP from present back to 200 Ma for (a) Africa, (b) Eurasia, (c) North America, and (d) India. Connected squares are APWPs for each continents and digit numbers are the ages. Reference: Besse, J. and Courtillot, V. (1991) Journal of Geophysical Research 96, 4029-4050.  
This week, we discussed how a mid-ocean ridge is a giant volcanic chain on the seafloor. Since mid-ocean ridges are composed of volcanoes, the temperature of seawater in surrounding areas is thought to be higher than other locations. In this section, we will learn about the relationship between life and hot water; that is, seawater which has been heated by the volcanic activity of mid-ocean ridges  The chemistry of hot water  At mid-ocean ridges, seawater is heated by magma. Seawater heated to 350°C spurts from pipe-shaped locations which are formed from deposits of sulfate and sulfide. Due to their shape, locations where seawater spurts are called “chimneys” (please look at the figure shown below!). Since pressure is greater on the seafloor than on land, seawater can exist without boiling even at temperatures exceeding 100°C. Hot water coming out of the chimneys appears black due to the presence of fine sulfide particles and is called “black smoker.”  Seawater becomes acidic due to the melting of magma volatile constituents such as H2S and CO2. Next, this acidic seawater dissolves K+, Ca2+, and SiO2 from surrounding rocks. The acidic seawater also dissolves heavy metals such as Ba, Fe, Mn, Cu and Zn. Furthermore, when the seawater exceeds 150°C, the Mg2+ and OH- contained in the seawater create altered minerals. Also, since almost all SO4- bonds with Ca2+ to become CaSO4, the amount of these constituents decreases when compared to normal seawater. Due to these effects, the composition of seawater near mid-ocean ridges where hot water is emitted differs significantly from seawater in other locations.  Hot water and life  Next, I would like to discuss topic with notable potential, although it has yet to become established theory. At mid-ocean ridges where hot water is emitted, the presence of hot water creates the presence of a great amount of elements which, together with water, are required for life. Moreover, it is believed that the ancestors of life today were thermophiles which thrived in hot environments. For these reasons, it is theorized that locations where hot water is emitted (in other words, locations near mid-ocean ridges) may have been one location where life originated. 

 Quiz
 
    Who first proposed the continental drift theory in 1912?
    

       Alfred Wegener
       

       Albert Einstein
       

       Kei Hirose
       

       Sir Isaac Newton
       
Mid-ocean ridges account for approximately 75% of all magma generated from volcanic activity on the Earth. Furthermore, approximately 20% of the Earth's total volcanic activity occurs in subduction zones, a topic which will be studied later (2-4-1). Now, where does the remaining 5% of volcanic activity occur?  The mantle possesses fluidity and undergoes convection (a detailed study of this topic is conducted in Week 4). A portion of the mantle becomes magma and rises to the Earth's surface. This rising flow is called a “hot plume.” It must be noted that the mantle and the plumes consisting of upward mantle flow are both solids. Hot spots refer to locations where these hot plumes penetrate through plates and rise to the Earth's surface. I'm sure that all of you are familiar with the Hawaiian Islands, but did you know that they are one of the Earth's most famous hot spots?  A major feature of hot spots is that the source of magma exists at a location which is much deeper than the plates. This magma generation source is sometimes located at the asthenosphere. In some cases, the generation source even goes down far enough to reach deep recesses of the lower mantle. At hot spots, magma rises to the Earth's surface and volcanoes are formed. As in the case of Hawaii, when magma rises to locations in a sea, volcanic islands are eventually formed. Plates move, so the formed volcanic islands move on top of the plates. However, since the source of hot spots is located deeper than plates, the hot spots do not move. This means that although the volcanic islands on top of the plates move together with the plates, the source of magma does not move. This results in a process in which the original volcanic island moves and a new volcano is then formed.   The figure shows the movement of plates and the movement of the Hawaiian Islands which were formed by hot spots. It is clear that a series of new volcanic islands is created according to the movement of plates. It is also clear that age of the Hawaiian Islands is older the farther northwest the island is located.  It is believed that a new mid-ocean ridge is formed when several hot spots occur inside of a plate. When a hot spot exists, a radial crack appears in the plate. When several hot spots exist, the cracks join together and a new mid-ocean ridge is formed. In actuality, some theories state that the Mid-Atlantic Ridge was formed in this way. A detailed discussion of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge will be conducted in the next section, 2-3-3. 
New plates are created at mid-ocean ridges. But how are ridges themselves created? As an example, let's look at the formation of the Atlantic Ridge, which is said to have been formed approximately XX thousand year ago. However, to be honest, the formation of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge is not yet fully understood. Therefore, I will explain two prevalent theories. Theory 1: A continent was torn apart by an old oceanic plate? Oceanic plates which are formed at a mid-ocean ridge in the Pacific Ocean move across the Pacific Ocean over a vast period of years. During this process, the oceanic plates are sufficiently cooled and become heavy. Eventually, the oceanic plate sinks beneath the continental plate at an ocean trench. This old, heavy oceanic plate (called a “slab”) which sinks down serves as a force which moves newly-created ocean plates by pulling them towards the ocean trench. Since this force is extremely strong, it does more than simply pull ocean plates on the Pacific Ocean side; it also pulls on the Atlantic Ocean side. It is said that this force tore apart a continent which existed on the Pacific Ocean side and created the Atlantic Ridge. Theory 2: Multiple hot spots linked together? The black circles in the figure show the locations of hot spots. Since the origin of hot spots is located deep within the Earth, it is believed that the occurrence of hot spots is unrelated to the movement of plates on the Earth's surface. However, when looking at the figure, hot spots can be seen along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge which exists on the Earth's surface. Accordingly, the following theory was created by connecting hot spots with the origin of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. First, prior to the formation of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a large number of independent hot spots had occurred in the area. Each one of these hot spots emitted magma and created cracks in the plate. It is theorized that each one of these small cracks linked together into a large crack which ultimately formed the Atlantic Ridge. FURTHER STUDY: Large Low Shear Velocity Province (LLSVP) When considering the second theory discussed above, a certain question arises. If hot spots occur in random locations, then why did the hot spots link together in a line? One answer to this question is a concept known as “Large Low Shear Velocity Province,” or LLSVP. At the lowest portion of the mantle, there is a province (LLSVP) where only S-waves are abnormally slow when compared with the surrounding mantle. The figure shows the relative speed distribution of S-waves at the lowest portion of the mantle. The red province shows where the S-wave speed is relatively slow. When looking at the figure, it can be seen that LLSVPs exist directly underneath the African continent and the Pacific Ocean. Here, it must be noted that hot spots appear to be concentrated around the border of these LLSVPs. In other words, there is the possibility that hot spots around the Mid-Atlantic Ridge are plumes which originate (are rooted) in the area around the LLSVPs. If this is true, it explains why these hot spots occur in a line.  
According to the continental drift theory which was proposed by Alfred Wegener at the beginning of the 20th century, the continents which exist today were created by the split of a single supercontinent. This supercontinent is called “Pangea.” It is said that Wegener's continental drift theory was inspired by the resemblance between the coastlines on the western coast of the African continent and the eastern coast of the South American continent. Additionally, in 1915, Wegener published a book which showed the validity of the continental drift theory based on proof derived from the fields of geodesy, geophysics, geology, paleontology, biology and paleoclimatology. In this section, I will introduce proof from the fields of paleontology and biology.  Fossils of creatures such as the Mesosaurus (a reptile) and the Glossopteris (a gymnosperm) have been excavated on both the African continent and the South American continent. Furthermore, there is a match between certain species of snails, worms, mussels, basses, and crayfish on the Eurasian continent and the eastern part of the North American continent. In addition to these species, Wagener demonstrated paleontological and biological similarities between Australia and South America, as well as between India and Africa. In order for a certain species to thrive, a specific environment is required. It is believed that the reason why the same fossil species are found in different regions is because those regions originally had the same environment; in other words, they were originally part of the same continent.  Currently, we know from detailed geological proof that Pangaea was formed approximately 300 million years ago and started to break apart approximately 200 million years ago. At first, Pangaea separated into its northern half, which is known as Laurasia (currently the Eurasian and North American continents), and its southern half, which is known as Gondwana (currently the African, South American, Antarctic, and Australian continents, as well as the Indian subcontinent). These portions then underwent further separation to eventually form the continental positions which exist today.  

 Quiz a
 
    From among volcanic activity occurring on the Earth, what is the ratio of magma created by volcanoes in subduction zones?
    

       5％
       

       20%
       

       50％
       

       85％
       
 Quiz b
 
   CHALLENGE!
   
    The volcanoes in the Tohoku region of Japan are shown in the illustration above. In general, the volcanic front (defined by the nearest volcanoes from trench) is found about 100km above a subducting oceanic plate. The linear distance from the ocean trench to the nearest volcano on the ground surface is 300 km. What is the subduction angle(°) of the oceanic plate?
    
    If necessary, please refer to the following trigonometric function table.
    

       8°
       

       18°
       

       28°
       

       38°
       
Plates move independently while riding on the asthenosphere which moves below. There are three main types of boundaries where plates are in contact with each other. 1. Divergent boundary/boundaries According to plate tectonics theory, this is where plates are produced. It has been observed that plates move apart at divergent boundaries. The mid-ocean trenches which we studied earlier (2-2-1) are the most classical example of divergent boundaries. As an exception, these boundaries also exist in great rift zones on top of continental plates. The reason why divergent boundaries exist on top of continental plates will be explained in Week 4, when we will learn about movement occurring at even deeper areas of the Earth. 2. Convergent boundary/boundaries The divergent boundaries introduced above are boundaries where plates spread apart. In contrast, convergent boundaries are boundaries where plates move together. For further information on convergent boundaries, please refer to 2-4-3. 3. Transform boundary/boundaries The topography of ocean floor makes clear that oceanic ridges do not exist continuously, and are non-contiguous in some places. This is because strike-slip plate boundaries called "transform faults" exist approximately perpendicularly to oceanic ridges. This boundary is formed because the Earth is spherical. When a plate moves along a spherical shell, that movement is a rotational motion with many central axes as its shaft. When a plate performs such movements, its velocity differs depending on the distance from the central axis. For this reason, the migration velocity differs at different points, creating strike-slip faults. This is the strike-slip boundary. The another example of a transform fault can be seen in the San Andreas Fault in the west coast of the U.S.A. 
  Convergent boundaries are classified into two types based on differences in the specific gravity of plates which are colliding. ○Continental collision type: Atlantic Ocean type   When the specific gravity of the two plates which are colliding is not significantly different, neither of the plates is able to sink when they collide. As a result, the collision force is continuously exerted as a compressive force. A classic example of this type is collision between the Indian/Australian plates and the Eurasian plate at the area around the Himalaya Mountains and Pamir Mountains. Currently, the Himalaya Mountains are the only location on Earth where active and large-scale continental collision is occurring. ○Subduction type: Pacific Ocean type   When the specific gravity of the two plates which are colliding is significantly different, the plates sink with the heavy plate underneath the lightweight plate. Since cold oceanic plates are heavier than continental plates, the oceanic plates sink beneath the continental plates.  Further Study: Accretionary wedge   A large amount of sediment has accumulated on oceanic plates which have undergone a long journey at the bottom of the sea ever since their creation at mid-ocean ridges. When oceanic plates sink under continental plates at ocean trenches, the accumulated seafloor sediment is sometimes scraped off by the continental plate. As a result, the seafloor sediment and mid-ocean ridge basalt (studied in detail in Week 3) carried by the oceanic plate accumulates along the edge of the continental plate. This process is called “accretion” and creates what is known as an “accretionary wedge.” Many areas of the Japanese archipelago were formed in this way.  Further study:Now, what might be happening at the subduction zones (convergent boundaries)? Oceanic plates subduct under continental plates there. Oceanic plates contain large amounts of water over long periods until they subduction. This water lowers rocks’ melting points, creating low temperature magma. At this point magma forms at certain depths in the Earth’s interior. This is because, even when water is present, high temperatures (~1100K) are still needed for melting. As a result of this, magma forms all at once in places a certain distance away from ocean ridges, or in other words, at depths where temperature is high enough. This is the reason why series of volcanoes line subduction zones (these are called volcanic fronts). The illustration below is a distribution diagram of volcanic fronts in Japan. Please confirm that most of the volcanoes are neatly aligned in a straight line (and that they are also parallel to ocean trenches). The main rocks on land, granite, are formed from magma in these subduction zones.Information about granite came from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granite  
  Four plates of various sizes meet in the area near Japan. Indeed, it can be said that the entire Japanese archipelago rests above a plate boundary. For this reason, Japan is frequently struck by earthquakes and volcanic activity which are natural disasters unique to plate boundaries. Earthquakes in Japan   Japan is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world. Every year, there are 1,000 to 2,000 earthquakes which are strong enough to be felt by the human body. Furthermore, earthquakes inflicting major damage happen every few years. Disasters such as the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake in 1995, the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, and the Kumamoto Earthquakes in 2016 are still fresh in our memory.   The damage wrought by earthquakes is not limited to destruction of structures due to violent shaking. As in the case of the Great Kanto Earthquake and the Great East Japan Earthquake, quakes can also cause secondary disasters such as fires and tsunamis, which inflict further damage.   The damage which has been inflicted on Japan by numerous earthquakes has caused our nation to focus on disaster prevention and mitigation. For example, skyscrapers are equipped with seismic isolators which suppress shaking. These devices absorb and weaken seismic tremors. Furthermore, supplies such as emergency food and blankets are kept in many public facilities. These facilities are always prepared to accept emergency evacuees. Another measure born from the concept of disaster prevention and mitigation is the Earthquake Early Warning (EEW), which transmits a warning when major earthquakes are detected. When a major earthquake occurs, the system detects the arrival of the first P-waves which cause relatively small tremors. A warning is then issued before the major tremors caused by S-waves. In response to this warning, actions are taken such as stopping production lines at factories and stopping the bullet train.  Volcanoes in Japan   Japan is known for having a great number of volcanoes. In fact, Japan has 110 active volcanoes, which accounts for 7% of all volcanoes in the world.   Volcanoes create beautiful scenery such as Mount Fuji and Mount Aso. However, they are also responsible for disasters similar to earthquakes. In recent times, the 1991 eruption of Mount Unzen and the 2015 eruption of Mount Ontake were volcanic disasters which claimed a large number of human lives. Even when volcanic disasters are not directly responsible for human death, phenomenon such as the adverse effect of volcanic ash on agricultural crops and a reduction in tourism around the volcano lead to economic damages. For example, Mount Hakone attracts a large number of tourists from both Japan and overseas. However, in 2015, an increase in volcanic activity at Mount Hakone caused the number of visitors to decrease to nearly 80% when compared to the previous year.   Currently, in order to reduce human casualties, the activity of 50 active volcanoes is monitored constantly in Japan and eruptions are predicted. Compared to seismic activity, volcanic activity is relatively easy to predict. In many cases of actual eruptions, it was possible to reduce damages thanks to predictions. Furthermore, as part of disaster activities, Japan is also creating hazard maps to show regions which would be subject to damage in the event of an eruption. During their daily lives, Japanese people enjoy hot springs and other benefits of volcanoes. For this very reason, we also understand the danger posed by volcanic activity.   Looking back, the Japanese archipelago itself was created as the result of plate motion. In other words, seismic and volcanic disasters which are caused by plate motion are an inseparable part of life in Japan. 
In this week you will learn about the Plate Tectonics. Here are the learning objectives for this week. Upon the completion of this week’s units, you will be able to; explain what is the plate tectonics. We hope you enjoy your journey in week 2. 

 Q1
 
    This figure shows a plate with the Euler pole and the Euler pole's equater. Which point is moving the fastest among the four points A to D ?
    

       A
       

       B
       

       C
       

       D
       
 Q2
 
    This figure shows an ocean ridge. Choose a formation age appropriate to each point A to D from the table below. (Formation ages of B and C are equal.)
    

       (Old) A, B=C, D (New)
       

       (Old) D, B=C, A (New)
       

       (Old) B=C, A, D (New)
       

       (Old) A, D, B=C (New)
       
 Q3
 
    Which geologic events are NOT derived from the work of subduction zone of plate?
    

       aurora
       

       typhoon(hurricane)
       

       the creation of volcanoes
       

       seismic activity
       

       orogenic activity
       
 Q4
 
    Why do volcanic activities occur at the subduction zone of plate? Choose the best explanation from the list below.
    

       The melting point is lowered by addition of water to the rocks.
       

       Seismic energy is caused by earthquakes occuring at the subduction zone.
       

       Friction energy occurs between plates and mantle.
       

       Gravity energy is released by subsidence of plates.
       
Download the summary (PDF) This link is available for Chrome, Firefox and Opera If you can't download the file from the above link, then right-click and choose "Download Linked File"  

 Quiz
 
    Which of the following factors is related to the difference in melting temperature between basaltic magma and granitic magma?
    

       Difference in water content
       

       Difference in iron content
       

       Difference in the depth they are found at
       

       Difference in color
       
I think you realized that there are various kinds of rocks. Might these have formed separately, unrelated to each other? No, these rocks are mutually related to a surprising extent and have what you could even say have a "sibling relationships".  By what kind of processes, precisely, are rocks formed? Rocks are formed through these three types of processes—igneous activity, sedimentation, and metamorphism.  “Igneous activity” refers to the phenomenon of rock formation from magma that has formed cools and hardens. Rocks formed through igneous activity are called igneous rocks.  “Sedimentation” refers to the phenomenon of rocks formed when rocks that already exist on the Earth’s surface are ground down by rain, glacier, or other forms of erosion and these sediments are deposited at the bottom of oceans or lakes and harden. Rocks formed in this way are called sedimentary rocks.  “Metamorphism” is a process by which already existing rocks’ structures are altered by heat or pressure. Rocks formed in this way are called metamorphic rocks.  Rocks observed on Earth can be grouped into the igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic rocks mentioned earlier. What is important here is that the three types of rocks are formed while mutually changing through igneous, sedimentation, and metamorphic activities.  Everything begins with igneous rocks. Magma forms when mantle rock partially melts. The magma that has formed either rises and erupts at the Earth’s surface or slowly cools deep in the Earth’s interior, turning into rock.  The igneous rocks formed here are eroded by rain and wind, forming sedimentary rocks through sedimentation. Further, igneous and sedimentary rocks subjected to metamorphic activities change into metamorphic rocks, while metamorphic rocks that undergo igneous processes can turn into igneous rocks or change into sedimentary rocks through sedimentation.  Rocks’ forms are changed in this way through three processes. These are summed up in this diagram. The manner in which rocks change in this way according to the environment and processes is called the rock cycle.  
First, let’s review a bit about basalt and granite (1-4-2).  About igneous rock Igneous rocks are classified as volcanic or plutonic according to the differences in their structures when observed under a microscope. Volcanic rocks are rocks formed when magma cools rapidly, and when their structures are observed with a microscope crystalline and non-crystalline or amorphous portions can be seen. The crystalline portions are called phenocrysts and the other part the matrix. (There are also some rocks such as basalt whose phenocrysts are subtle to the point of being hardly noticeable.) On the other hand, plutonic rocks are rocks formed deep in the Earth’s interior when magma cools slowly, and have relatively large grains because all their components are formed through crystallization. Volcanic rocks are classified according to their chemical compositions, particularly how much SiO2 they contain.  Where do igneous rocks form? It is understood that igneous rocks’ composition reflects the conditions at the time they formed. We will consider where igneous rocks are formed from this point on. There are three factors that influence melting rock that is at high temperatures and creating magma. 1) Raise the temperature. 2) Lower the pressure.3) Addition of other matter. The interesting point here is adding other matter. Add water, or in other words, if rock contains water, we know from high pressure experiments that its melting point drops. Now, where does magma formation occur inside the Earth? (If you have time, please take a look at the section 2-3-4, “Plate tectonics” of the Week 2 text.)  The answer is, it occurs during the following changes to rocks at high temperatures.1) When rocks rise from inside the Earth (pressure drops)2) When water or other substances are introduced In other words, 1 occurs in mid-ocean ridges and 2 in subduction zone volcanoes. I have already mentioned that basaltic crusts form on mid-ocean ridges. There, convection can cause upper mantle peridotites to rise to shallow areas underground while still at high temperatures. When that happens, peridotites partially melt, creating the magma that becomes basalt, and that surfaces in the ocean. (What I would like you to remember here is that not all peridotites on mid-ocean ridges melted.) At this point, the rocks cool rapidly, turning into matrix- and phenocryst-type volcanic rocks. Conversely, basalt is defined as having basaltic magma constituents whose structure derives from rapid cooling. Basalt that forms on mid-ocean ridges is called “MORB.” Although it can be said that there are slight differences in composition depending on the place, there are very few differences. The Earth's surface is approximately 70% covered by ocean, so we can calculate that much of the Earth is covered with MORB. 
WHY DOES COMPOSITION CHANGE? The colors of granite and basalt differ greatly. The differences in color come from the differences in their minerals of which they are composed, that is, the differences in their chemical make-up. At this point, rocks that contain a lot of colorless, transparent minerals such as quartz or feldspar are whitish in color and, conversely, rocks that contain many colored minerals other than quartz or feldspar (that contain iron, for example) appear black. What produces these kinds of different colors in igneous rocks? That would be the different constituents of the magma that is their source and it depends on the temperature at which magma is formed. When the peridotites that are mantle materials partially melt, they start turning into magma from the substances that melt easily. Moreover, the things that crystallize easily crystallize first when rock get cold. The process that causes magma to change according to temperature is called igneous differentiation. As such, the compositions of the magma that is formed and of the original rock differ when igneous differentiation occurs. MORB is what comes from peridotites that partially melt under temperature and pressure conditions on mid-ocean ridges, generating igneous differentiation.  Next, what occurs in subduction zones? The same thing happens as far as the mechanisms are concerned. However, because of water contained in rocks, the temperature along a subduction zone could be low. It can generate many kinds of magma. Even in not so hot magma ( ~ 800 °C / 1100 K), a lot of quartz and feldspar, which are whitish colored (or transparent) minerals, remain as constituents that melt easily. This is the reason why granite appears white or has a light color. In this fashion, when the composition of magma differs, the igneous rocks created from it also differ greatly in appearance. Generally, many more quartz, feldspar, and other colorless minerals are created if magma contains a lot of silica, SiO2. Conversely, the ratio of colored minerals becomes higher when there is little silica and, for example, large amounts of iron. Further study: Igneous rocks are classified as felsic, intermediate, mafic, or ultramafic in order of the higher ratio of silica in the rocks. When the corresponding constituent minerals are arranged in bands in a figure, it would appear as follows.  The following is a summary of this section’s content and video materials.  1) Volcanic rocks are the source for many different kinds of rocks.2) The main volcanic rocks are basalt, formed from peridotites through partial melting under lower pressure on mid-ocean ridges, and granite, formed in lower temperature conditions. These two have different SiO2 and iron content and also differ in appearance.3) Water addition lowers rocks’ melting points. That is, the existence of granite is symbolic of Earth, a watery planet. On the other hand, basalt is also seen on Mars, Venus, and the moon. 
The periodic table is a tabular arrangement of the chemical elements, ordered by their atomic number (number of protons in the nucleus), electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties. The table also shows four rectangular blocks: s-, p- d- and f-block. In general, within one row (period) the elements are metals on the lefthand side, and non-metals on the righthand side. (Wikipedia) I will point out several useful things while looking at the periodic table. 1. Elements in the same group are similar Elements in the same group basically have the same number of valence electrons that contribute to reactions. Those effects are particularly striking in the smaller period. Hydrogen is special, usually behaving molecularly as a non-metallic element, but is said to become metallic at extremely high pressures.  2. Heavy elements were formed from stars’ explosions The elements up to iron are formed through nuclear fusion reactions inside the sun and other stars. Large elements with atomic numbers above that (Fe) are formed by supernova explosions when stars die. Elements’ abundance within the solar system is shown below. It can be seen that elements lighter than iron are greatly abundant and that Fe is more common compared to other heavier elements. The Earth’s mantle is primarily silicates (Si, O, Mg, Al, Fe, Ca, and so on) and the core is made mainly of Fe and Ni. Many elements common in everyday life have comparatively high levels of abundance. 3. Lithophile and siderophile elements Another type of information important to Earth sciences is the classification of elements according to whether they are siderophile. The traditional classification by Victor Goldschmidt is shown above. He classified elements abundance in the Earth’s crust according to whether certain elements had an affinity with iron or not. He believed that elements with an affinity for iron disappeared from the surface because they went to the core, and that elements with a lack of affinity for iron remained in the mantle and crust. He named these elements siderophile. Non-siderophile elements in ambient pressure also are able to melt in molten iron to a certain extent under high pressure. Research to investigate whether individual elements have an affinity for the mantle or core by melting rocks and iron simultaneously under high pressure has been ongoing. For example, hydrogen under high pressure behaves as a siderophile element.  Wikipedia’s periodic table article summarizes information about the periodic table, arrangement of electrons, and various ways of obtaining information from them for those who would like to know. Please take a look if you feel so inclined.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Periodic_table 

 Quiz
 
    How can we assume that the mantle is relatively homogeneous in composition?
    

       By seismology which suggests that a whole mantle is well mixed by radiation
       

       By seismology which suggests that a whole mantle is well mixed by conduction
       

       By seismology which suggests that a whole mantle is well mixed by convection
       
Regarding theories about the composition of the Earth’s mantle  Various methods have been employed to deduce the composition of the Earth’s mantle. As previously noted in this course, we have not been able to dig a hole directly to the mantle to obtain materials. Even the deepest hole that we have been able to bore was only dug 12.2 kilometers deep. It was with that in mind that we turned our attention to mantle minerals that could be obtained on the Earth’s surface. For example, inferences have been made by investigating the composition of mantle minerals such as rock complex called ophiolite and olivine contained in xenoliths.   However, you get the feeling that it is a bit forced that these minerals that have been obtained account for the entire mantle, right? Moreover, most of the mantle minerals that have been obtained from xenoliths and such are minerals from relatively high in the mantle. With that in mind, experiments that combine measurements of seismic waves, high pressure experiments, and theoretical calculations have been conducted to estimate the composition. Specifically, substances of the sort that meet the criteria for seismic wave velocity obtained from seismic wave observations have actually been reproduced in high pressure experiments under mantle temperature and pressure conditions, and also have been obtained through theoretical calculations.  About the mantle’s standard composition The Earth takes the form of a layered structure. Naturally, the mantle is also a layered structure. So, what is the overall mantle’s standard (average) composition? Mantle materials that rise toward mid-ocean ridges partially melt, producing basaltic magma. On the other hand, residual solid matter portions form the lithosphere under the oceanic crust. Because the lithosphere is peridotitic, the deep mantle before producing basaltic magma is believed to possess the composition that is a mixture of peridotites and basalt. Based on that thought, a theoretical mantle substance that has a composition of mixed peridotites and basalt at a ratio of around 3:1 has been proposed. This composition is called pyrolite composition. Following table shows different pyrolite compositions. Actually, it is said that the upper mantle is likely composed of pyrolite because it has been confirmed that the composition of mantle minerals contained in xenoliths have the composition of pyrolite. Further study : Some models are proposed as a pyrolite composition and it's still an open question   Now, as to whether the lower mantle is also composed of pyrolite, there are some people who think not.  I will explain the Earth’s overall chemical composition in more detail at the end of this session, but to describe it graphically, they say that if you ground the entire Earth into powder and mixed it, it would probably be the same composition as the solar atmosphere. Moreover, other than some exceptions, every element matches in the composition of meteorites called CI chondrites and the solar atmosphere. This is why it is thought that the composition of the Earth and CI chondrites match, other than some exceptions. Of these, Si (silicon) is also said to match, but it is known that the Earth’s crust and upper mantle by themselves lack Si compared to CI chondrites. This is called the “missing silicon problem” (for details, 3-4 covers this in detail). That being the case, there are also people who think that the lower mantle does not have a pyrolite composition, but instead has a higher ratio of Si in its composition. Hearing this, you might think that it could be that the lower mantle does not have a pyrolite composition, but there is also the possibility that it does. The people who believe that the lower mantle also has a pyrolite composition think that it could be that the core contains a lot of Si because the crust and mantle lack Si.  There are still many things we do not understand about this issue. Further study: Solar atmosphere’s composition The solar atmosphere’s make-up is understood through observations of sunlight’s spectrum on Earth. Dark lines, called Fraunhofer lines, can be seen in places in sunlight’s spectrum. Elements absorb light at wavelengths unique to themselves. The dark lines that are observed are formed when elements contained in the solar atmosphere absorb light at specific wavelengths, so these dark lines’ wavelengths can be used to identify elements and their intensity elements’ abundance (fixed quantity). This is called atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). This method has provided an understanding of the solar atmosphere’s elemental make-up.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fraunhofer_lines  
Xenoliths provide strong circumstantial evidence for estimating the composition of the mantle. As we learned in class, magma sometimes pushes mantle rocks up to the surface of the Earth. These rocks are called xenoliths. Magma coming from the deepest recesses of the Earth is called “kimberlite,” a substance which contains diamonds. Kimberlite Igneous rock originates from the mantle. It is mainly composed of the minerals olivine and mica. Diamond gemstones are sometimes found in this igneous rock. The photograph shown below is of kimberlite containing a diamond gemstone. Diamonds are created in high-pressure conditions of 5 GPa or greater. Accordingly, kimberlite containing diamonds as shown in the photograph is thought to be created at locations at least 150 kilometers underground. Kimberlite magma penetrates through the mantle and crust at such a fast speed (the spouting speed is estimated to be as fast as 300 kph!) that the diamonds do not have time to revert to graphite. Among all xenoliths obtained by mankind, kimberlite is rock which comes from the deepest recesses of the Earth. The amount of information provided by magma becomes smaller the deeper we delve into the Earth. Therefore, kimberlite is a very important direct material from deep recesses of the Earth. Kimberley The name “kimberlite” is derived from the capital city Kimberley of the Northern Cape Province in South Africa. The photograph below is the Kimberley Mine, which is the oldest diamond mine. The mine is nicknamed the “Big Hole.”  The Big Hole of Kimberley Diamond Mine As implied by its nickname the “Big Hole,” the Kimberley Mine is a giant hole with a diameter of 500 meters, a circumference of 1.6 kilometers, and a depth of 1,097 meters. From the time that the first deposits were discovered in 1871 until the mine was closed in 1914, approximately 3 tons of diamonds were excavated from the mine. Currently, the mine has been closed and water has accumulated in the hole. The beautiful scenery has made the Big Hole a tourist attraction where people can experience the history of diamond mining. 

 Quiz
 
    How can we estimate that the approximate chemical composition of entire mantle corresponds to the chemical composition of Olivine?
    

       Through high pressure experiments, it has been found that the chemical composition of rocks in the crust is the same as the chemical composition of rocks in the shallow part of the mantle
       

       The depth that phase transition occurs when a rock from the shallow part of a mantle is placed in a high pressure experiment matches the depth of the reflection surfaces of seismic waves
       

       The chemical composition of rocks in the mantle can be learned directly by observing of seismic waves
       
 In the video, we drew a phase diagram of peridotite. Here, we will describe simply how to read a phase diagram.  Phase diagrams have several variables. Recall 1-1-5. Important variables in looking at the Earth included temperature, pressure (corresponds to depth in earth science), and composition. Take two of these variables and make one the vertical axis and the other, the horizontal axis. Plot the most stable phase of the substance (in other words, the state most likely) for each condition to create a phase diagram. Phase here refers to the zone in which, if any part of a substance is chosen, its properties are homogenous, and can be distinguished from others. For example, the P-T phase diagram of water is as shown below. Follow the line where the atmospheric pressure is 1. Following it from the low-temperature side, it changes to water at 0°C (①) and to gas at 100°C (②). The phase diagram shows the state of the substance under those circumstances. For example, at 0.001 atmospheric pressure at 50 °C (☆), water becomes water vapor, and at 1.2 atmospheric pressure at 50°C (★), it becomes water. In this manner, when the temperature and pressure conditions change, the phase can change, even for the same composition. This is called phase transition. (We will discuss phase transition more thoroughly in 3-3-3.) 1 atmospheric pressure at 0°C in the chart below (①) is on the line between solid and liquid. At this point, both phases of water and ice can coexist stably. One of the objectives of high pressure experiments is to postulate a phase diagram of the deep earth.  Further Study: Here, we will touch on the very important concept called equilibrium. When drawing a phase diagram, it is crucial that equilibrium has been reached. For example, when ice is brought to 100 degrees, it remains ice for a while, but then gradually melts. Equilibrium has not been reached in such a state. If equilibrium has been reached, what phase it would become (or which phases can coexist) under a certain temperature, pressure, and composition condition would be unambiguous. Did you just think that the interior of the Earth is moving, in the first place, so it can't be in equilibrium? If you thought so, that is great. The reason that we can use the concepts of phase diagrams and equilibrium in earth science is that it is in a state of disequilibrium overall so that the interior of the Earth is moving, but, at the same time, the process is that small localities have reached the state of equilibrium from the standpoint of thermodynamics. This kind of equilibrium is called local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE).  
 In 3-3-2, we examined phases and phase diagrams. Here, we will examine it more deeply, along with details on phase transition, to apply it to geoscience.  As we saw in the phase diagram in 3-3-2, water becomes water vapor when heated to 100°C and ice when cooled to 0°C. However, it still remains H2O. Ice, water, and water vapor are in the phases of solid, liquid, and gas respectively. Its form changes with temperature. This is because the arrangement of molecules change. This phenomenon, where the arrangement of molecules change despite it remaining the same substance, is called phase transition. Does water always change to water vapor at 100 °C? For example, water boils at approximately 90°C at the summit of Mount Fuji (elevation 3776 m). We can conclude that there is another parameter of phase transition, in addition to temperature. That parameter is pressure. The atmospheric pressure is low at the summit of Mount Fuji, so the boiling point of water becomes lower than 100 °C. Furthermore, the temperature of the boiling point will also change if salt or ice is added to water, or if ethanol is used instead of water.  In other words, the point of occurrence of phase transition can be described using the three parameters of chemical composition, pressure, and temperature. (This corresponds to the three yields we urged caution about in 1-1-5.) Therefore, if the chemical composition is known, when either P or T is defined, the other parameter at the point of phase transition can be automatically determined. This is a phase diagram of water. The vertical axis is temperature and the horizontal axis is pressure.  For example, carbon can exist as graphite or as diamond, though they are both solids. Even solids of the same substance are considered different phases, if the arrangement of molecules are different. Such differences in solids with the same chemical composition but different crystal structures is called polymorphism. This change from one form of polymorphism to another is also called phase transition, in addition to transition of states, such as from solid to liquid.  The video below is a documentation of phase transition from liquid to ice VI. Phase transition was induced by changing only the pressure, not the temperature.  The phase transition happening inside the mantle is like this phase transition from ice to ice: phase transition from a solid to a solid.  In 1-4-3, we examined various layers inside our planet. These layers are formed by the phase transition of peridotite, the major metal of the upper mantle, due to the changes in temperature and pressure corresponding to the increase in depth. So why is there a surface reflecting seismic waves in locations, for example, where phase transition is occurring? The velocity of seismic waves is expressed below, as touched on in detail in 1-3-4. \(V_p=\sqrt{\frac{K + \frac{4}{3} \mu}{\rho}}\)　, \(V_s=\sqrt{\frac{\mu}{\rho}}\)  When phase transition occurs, even though the chemical composition remains the same, density ρ as well as modulus of elasticity K and μ change greatly. As a result, the velocity of seismic waves change greatly with discontinuity at layer boundaries. Thus, wave-reflecting surfaces are formed according to the principle of reflection which was described in 1-3-5. By observing this, we came to understand the onion structure of the Earth's interior. *If you require a more detailed explanation, review 1-3-4 and 1-3-5.  
I provided information about phase diagrams for olivine, the main mineral in peridotites, in 3-3-2. Let’s go over it one more time. Olivine’s phase transition is as shown below.    How much of the mantle might these account for? A diagram that gives their distribution together with their ratios is shown below. It can be seen that around half the upper mantle and most of the lower mantle are olivine minerals that undergo high pressure phase transitions. The reason that other minerals exist is that the Earth’s interior contains other elements such as Ca and Al, for example. These come together to create separate minerals. Additionally, minerals called pyroxene and majorite (garnet) exist in abundance in the upper mantle. Calcium perovskite exsists in lower mantle. These are also silicate minerals (having the structure of SiO2), but elements other than Mg and Fe find their way in. It can be seen that the principal minerals’ proportion is high (from the point of view of those of us on the Earth’s surface who see all kinds of minerals), and I hope that you have gained an understanding that the variety of minerals in the Earth’s interior is actually uncomplicated. Further study: The ratios of all the minerals are as follows. Put your cursor over the graph below and click to jump to that mineral’s Wikipedia page. Additionally, in this course on Deep Earth Science the term Perovskite being used refers to the Silicate Perovskite.  
This time I will talk about X-ray diffraction (XRD) as a measurement method for analyzing minerals. When a specimen is irradiated with X-rays, the electrons around an atom cause X-ray scattering and interference. X-rays diffract only in directions in line with Bragg’s law, producing patterns that reflect crystalline structures (diffraction patterns). These patterns are unique to substances so analyzing them makes it possible to analyze minerals’ compositions. XRD is broadly divided into single crystal X-ray diffraction and X-ray powder diffraction. Please read this if you would like to know about Bragg’s law in more detail: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bragg%27s_law Single crystal X-ray diffraction Creating a single crystal sample and measuring it with X-ray diffraction is called single crystal X-ray diffraction. It is ordinarily carried out to determine the molecular structures of unidentified samples. Dots appear in diffraction patterns. These are called Laue spots. More details : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X-ray_crystallography X-ray powder diffraction Measuring a sample thought to be an aggregate of single crystals with X-ray diffraction is called X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD). It is ordinarily implemented to identify unknown samples. The intensity of the diffracted X-rays obtained with XRPD is the sum of the diffraction from randomly facing single crystals in various directions. Diffraction patterns have spots with single crystal XRD, but with XRPD are concentric circles with dots that can be rotated along the central axis because they are aggregates of multiple single crystals facing in random directions. In qualitative analysis, the representative XRPD method analysis technique, the observed diffraction patterns are compared with the diffraction patterns of known substances to identify crystal compositions and phases. X-ray diffraction pattern configurations depend on the arrangement of the atoms and molecules that make up crystals, so diffraction angles and intensities change if structures differ. Two substances are deemed to be the same if a comparison of the diffraction patterns of an unknown and known substance confirms that their respective peak positions and intensity ratios match. This allows for unknown to be identified. In many cases, databases that are collections of known substances’ diffraction patterns are used to identify unknown materials. More details : http://serc.carleton.edu/research_education/geochemsheets/techniques/XRD.html 
Olivine undergoes phase transitions in which its density increases on the way toward deep Earth. You wonder specifically just how the structure changes, don’t you? I would like to tell you just a bit about that section here.  At this point I will provide information about the respective crystal structures of the olivine, wadsleyite, ringwoodite, MgSiO3 perovskite, and MgSiO3 post-perovskite that we covered in this course by viewing them from three perspectives.  Olivine (Mg, Fe)2SiO4 Major constituent mineral of the upper mantle (depths from 30 to 410 km) Crystal system: Orthorhombic SiO4 tetrahedra (blue tetrahedra) are not mutually linked. As can be seen from the image below, there are many gaps.  The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively. They are represented similarly below.  Wadsleyite (Mg, Fe)2SiO4 (modified spinel structure) Major constituent mineral of the upper mantle (depths from 410 to 520 km) Crystal system: Orthorhombic SiO4 tetrahedra (blue tetrahedra) are mutually linked. However, it is not that many SiO4 tetrahedra are linked to each other, but that, as can be seen in the diagram below, it is just that two SiO4 tetrahedra mutually share one tetrahedron point. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively.  Ringwoodite (Mg, Fe)2SiO4 (normal spinel structure) Major constituent mineral of the upper mantle (depths from 520 to 660 km) Crystal system: Cubic In this case the SiO4 tetrahedra (blue tetrahedra) are not mutually linked. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively.  MgSiO3 perovskite (Bridgmanite) Major constituent mineral of the lower mantle (depths from 660 to 2,600 km) Crystal system: Orthorhombic The Si coordination number (the number of oxygen atoms bonded with silicon atoms) has changed from four to six so the SiO4 tetrahedron that we have seen up to now changes to an SiO6 octahedron. Magnesium occupies the interstices among eight SiO6 octahedra. The green spheres represent Mg atoms. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6octohedra, respectively.  MgSiO3 post-perovskite Major constituent mineral of the lowest part of the mantle (depths from 2,600 to 2,900 km) In contrast to MgSiO3 perovskite, in which SiO6 octahedra mutually share an octahedron vertex, in MgSiO3 post-perovskite SiO6 octahedra mutually share an octahedron edge as well. The red spheres represent oxygen atoms, blue tetrahedra SiO4 tetrahedra, and green octohedra MgO6 octohedra, respectively. I have used VESTA (http://jp-minerals.org/vesta/jp/) for all the crystal structure illustrations. 

 Quiz a
 
    Why can it be predicted that the chemical composition of Earth as a whole generally has a high degree of coincidence with those of meteorites?
    

       Because the chemical composition of the solar atmosphere and that of meteorites have a high degree of coincidence, and Earth is between the sun and the asteroid belt
       

       Because the chemical composition of the solar atmosphere and that of Earth's atmosphere have a high degree of coincidence, and Earth is between the sun and the asteroid belt
       

       Because the chemical composition of Earth's atmosphere and that of meteorites have a high degree of coincidence, and Earth is between the sun and the asteroid belt
       
 Quiz b
 
    Why is the core predicted to contain light elements?
    

       Because the actual core density as learned by observing seismic waves is lower than that of a core hypothesized to contain only light elements
       

       Because light elements cannot escape from the core
       

       Because the core contains elements heavier than iron, and light elements are necessary to balance the weight
       

       Because the actual core density as learned by observing seismic waves is lower than that of pure iron
       
I will sum up the logic shown in the video.  First, the Earth’s chemical composition is presumed to be as follows:  Next, the entire Earth’s chemical composition is represented as follows:  That being the case, the core’s chemical composition, which cannot be understood well from the surface, would be derived from (1) and (2) as follows:   According to these calculations, there is a theory that there is silicon in the Earth’s core along with Fe and Ni. (The situation is that debates regarding the existence of silicon are still underway.)  Next, meteorite’s chemical composition also matches the solar atmosphere’s chemical composition to a relative degree, but not necessarily when it comes to volatile constituents. There is also a possibility that volatiles are present in the core.  Density deficit in the earth’s core  One of the famous geophysicists, Birch revealed that the density of the earth’s outer and inner core is lower than pure iron from seismologic studies. It is around 10 % in liquid outer core and 5% in solid inner core. However, which light element(s) lead to the density deficit is still an open question. Several light element(s) such as Si, H, O, C, S are proposed as candidates of light elements of the earth’s core and many experimental or theoretical results are provided (3-4-4).  
Meteorites are rocks which fall to the Earth from outer space. A distinctive feature of meteorites is the black glass caused by frictional heat when the meteorite enters the atmosphere. In addition to meteorites which were witnessed falling to the Earth, many meteorites have been discovered during surveys of deserts and Antarctica. Meteorites collected on the Earth are composed of metal and stone. Depending on the quantitative ratio of these materials, meteorites are divided into the three main classifications of stony meteorites, stony-iron meteorites, and iron meteorites. Stony meteorites are further divided into two classifications based on the presence of distinctive granules called “chondrules”. Stony meteorites which contain chondrules are called “chondrites,” while those which do not contain chondrules are called “achondrites.” A summary of these classifications is shown in figure below.  When comparing the layer structure (crust-mantle-core) inside of the Earth with the constituents and chemical composition of meteorites, achondrites correspond to the crust-mantle of the lithosphere, iron meteorites correspond to the metal core, and stony-iron meteorites correspond to the core-mantle boundary. Therefore, it is believed that these meteorites flew from corresponding layers of a celestial body which possesses a layered structure similar to the Earth (Figure 5). Conversely, chondrites possess a chemical composition which is similar to the sun (excluding highly volatile elements) and contain chondrules which are thought to have been formed at the beginning of the solar system. Accordingly, it can be inferred that chondrites correspond to undifferentiated substances which existed before the Earth formed its current layered structure.  
Hayabusa  I would like to discuss Hayabusa, the Japanese mission to probe the solar system’s origins. A ray of light appeared over the Australian desert at 10 p.m. on June 13, 2010. The Hayabusa probe had returned. Hayabusa was an asteroid probe. Flying to an asteroid named Itokawa, it descended to the asteroid’s surface, picked up samples, and returned. Along with demonstrating various kinds of technology, its objectives were to investigate materials from around the time of the early solar system and obtain data about planet formation. Launched in 2003, it was somehow able to return to Earth even while beset by various problems. Its flight distance was just over five billion kilometers. So it was a tremendous technological achivement and saga. Now, we learned from analyzing the materials that Hayabusa did such a splendid job of bringing back that Itokawa was a celestial body that served as the source for ordinary chondrites, the most common meteorites that have been found on Earth. In other words, it is to a certain extent a primordial small astronomical body. However, this was insufficient to learn about information about the solar system containing volatile elements at the time of its formation. Details and source: http://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/muses_c/ Hayabusa 2 With that in mind, there are plans to investigate an asteroid thought to have carbonaceous chondrites, which are even more primitive than ordinary chondrites. That is Hayabusa 2, whose objective is to obtain data about the time of the solar system’s formation. It is said that there are also plans to attempt to collect materials that have not changed much by using an impact device that will strike and expose underground materials. This mission may find much organic matter and water. Carbon and water are extremely important prerequisites that can be called the raw materials for Earth’s life forms, and there are hopes for numerous discoveries that will bring us closer to the origins of the solar system and life. Hayabusa 2 was launched at 4:22 a.m. on December 3, 2014, and its flight is proceeding smoothly (Video is below). And, on December 3, 2015, Hayabusa 2 made a swing-by. By doing this, Hayabusa increased its speed and succeeded to enter into orbit toward the asteroid "Ryugu". Hayabusa 2 is an ELSI mission. http://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/hayabusa2/  Video with information about Hayabusa 2 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TDbtQd4LeuA   Hayabusa 2’s mission schedule Year Event 2014 Launch 2018 Arrival at 1999 JU3 2020 Return to Earth 2020- Sample analysis  Details and source: http://global.jaxa.jp/projects/sat/hayabusa2/orbit.html 
Estimating the abundance ratios of Earth’s elements As you all know, the sun is at the center of the solar system, with Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune revolving around it. Despite all these celestial bodies, the sun accounts for around 99.86% of the solar system’s mass. As such, the abundance ratio of the entire solar system’s elements is believed to nearly match the abundance ratio of the sun’s elements.  The diagram below compares the composition of CI chondrites, a kind of carbonaceous chondrite (3-3-2), and the solar atmosphere(3-2-2)’s abundance. The diagram is a bit hard to understand, but the X-axis indicates the abundance of respective elements in chondrites and also the Y-axis in the solar atmosphere, arrayed in an xy-plane. I will explain this diagram in detail.The chemical composition of the solar atmosphere is plotted on the vertical axis and that of CI chondrites on the horizontal axis. It represents the abundance ratios of other elements when Si is 1. Being out of alignment above the straight line means that more elements are contained in the solar atmosphere than in CI chondrites.  Other than volatile elements and a few exceptions such as Li and Be, they match quite well. We know that CI chondrites and other meteoroids almost all come from what is called the asteroid belt, located between Mars and Jupiter in the above diagram. The major premise of Earth sciences is the thought that if the compositions of CI chondrites and the solar atmosphere nearly match then the compositions of Earth, which is located between the sun and the asteroid belt, and CI chondrites also ought to match well.  Example: Compared to Si at 1, O is 24 and Be is 4 × 10^-7 in the solar atmosphere.  I think you can see that there are two groups in this diagram that diverge greatly in the compositions of the solar atmosphere and CI chondrites. One includes elements such as N, C, and O that are out of alignment just above the diagonal line. The other includes Li, B, and Be, which are out of alignment just below the diagonal line.  C, N, O, and such are volatile elements. Volatiles are believed to have been lost when meteoroids were formed, and I believe you can understand that this is why more are contained in the solar atmosphere than in CI chondrites.  Conversely, when they are out of alignment below the straight line it naturally means that CI chondrites contain more than the solar atmosphere. For example, compared to the CI chondrites, solar atmosphere contain less Li, B, Be, which elements that are consumed to produce helium through nuclear fusion in the sun’s interior.  You can understand from this that although it is a vital issue, estimating Earth’s abundance of volatiles is difficult. 
We have looked at the Earth’s elemental structure up to this point. Now, what kinds of elements might make up the other planets in the solar system? I would like to briefly provide information about the solar system’s other planets here. There are three types of planets. These revolve around the sun in nearly circular orbits and, starting with the closest, are terrestrial planets, gas giants, and ice giants. (1) Terrestrial planets:Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars Planets composed mainly of refractory substances such as rock and metal (2) Gas giants:Jupiter and Saturn Planets with low density and huge sizes, primarily made up of gases  (3) Ice giants:Uranus and Neptune Huge planets composed mainly of water, methane, and ammonia that have solidified into ice  The respective planets’ data are shown below  I would like anyone who has additional interest to refer to the following sites:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_Systemhttp://solarsystem.nasa.gov/  Further study: Humanity was recently able to view Pluto’s form for the first time thanks to NASA’s New Horizons mission. See here if you are interested: https://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/newhorizons/main/index.html  A collection of the photos taken on the mission can be found below: https://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/newhorizons/images/index.html 
In this week you will learn about the chemical composition inside the Earth. Here are the learning objectives for this week. Upon the completion of this week’s units, you will be able to; explain the Earth’s chemical composition. We hope you enjoy your journey in week 3.  
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE WEEK3 TEST Here is the test for Week 3. Read the information below and answer the questions. You can always go back to the previous weeks to review what you've learned so far. 

 Q1
 
    Basalts have also been found on other celestial bodies than Earth in the solar system. Choose the planets or satellites according to the lecture.
    

       Mars
       

       Venus
       

       Moon
       

       Jupiter
       

       Saturn
       
 Q2
 
    Which evidence is the best for indicating presence of liquid water on a planet in the past.
    

       The planet has granite.
       

       The planet has the magnetic field.
       

       The planet has been collided by asteroids.
       

       The planet has basalts.
       
 Q4
 
    This diagram plots the ratio of elements in the chemical composition of meteorites and that of the solar atmosphere. To plot hydrogen(Note that hydrogen is a volatile element) in this diagram, which of the following locations should it be?
    

       1
       

       2
       

       3
       
 Q5
 
    How can the chemical composition of the nonvolatile elements in the core be estimated conceptionally? (the chemical composition of the nonvolatile elements in the core)
    

       = (chemical composition of Earth as a whole as estimated from meteorites) + (chemical composition of mantle) - (chemical composition of crust)
       

       = (chemical composition of Earth as a whole as estimated from meteorites)
       

       = (chemical composition of Earth as a whole as estimated from meteorites) - (chemical composition of mantle) - (chemical composition of crust)
       

       = 2 × (chemical composition of mantle) - (chemical composition of crust)
       
Download the summary (PDF) This link is available for Chrome, Firefox and Opera If you can't download the file from the above link, then right-click and choose "Download Linked File" 
SPring-8 is a large synchrotron radiation facility which delivers the most powerful synchrotron radiation currently available. Consisting of narrow, powerful beams of electromagnetic radiation, synchrotron radiation is produced when electron beams, accelerated to nearly the speed of light, are forced to travel in a curved path by a magnetic field. The research conducted at SPring-8, located in Harima Science Park City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan, includes nanotechnology, biotechnology and industrial applications. The name "SPring-8" is derived from "Super Photon ring-8 GeV" (8 GeV, or 8 giga electron volts, being the power output of the ring). SPring-8 was opened in 1997 to industrial, academic and government users, domestic and international. Any user whose application is accepted may use the facility. (History of SPring-8 is here.) SPring-8 is managed by RIKEN, with the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI) in charge of operation, maintenance and promotion of use.  Synchrotron radiation (SR) is an electro-magnetic wave emitted from an electron traveling at almost the speed of light, toward its running-direction when its path is bent by a magnetic field. Synchrotron radiation is characterized by useful features; brightness, high directionality and variable polarization. SPring-8, the world's largest third-generation synchrotron radiation facility (in 2016), provides the most powerful synchrotron radiation currently available. SPring-8's ultra-brilliant synchrotron radiation gives researchers exciting opportunities for advanced research in materials science, spectroscopic analysis, earth science, life science, environmental science, industrial applications and so forth. Synchrotron radiation is very useful for various fields in both basic and applied research.  Synchrotron radiation available at SPring-8 is applied to the following advanced research fields: 
Life Science: Atomic structure analysis of protein macromolecules and elucidation of biological functions; Mechanism of time-dependent biological reactions; Dynamics of muscle fibers
 
Materials Science: Precise electron distribution in novel inorganic crystals; Structural phase transition at high pressure / high or low temperature; Atomic and electronic structure of advanced materials of high Tc superconductors, highly correlated electron systems and magnetic substances; Local atomic structure of amorphous solids, liquids and melts
 
Chemical Science: Dynamic behaviors of catalytic reactions; X-ray photochemical process at surface; Atomic and molecular spectroscopy; Analysis of ultra-trace elements and their chemical states; Archeological studies
 
Earth and Planetary Science: In situ X-ray observation of phase transformation of earth materials at high pressure and high temperature; Mechanism of earthquakes; Structure of meteorites and interplanetary dusts
 
Environmental Science: Analysis of toxic heavy atoms contained in bio-materials; Development of novel catalysts for purifying pollutants in exhaust gases; Development of high quality batteries and hydrogen storage alloys
 
Industrial Application: Characterization of microelectronic devices and nanometer-scale quantum devices; Analysis of chemical composition and chemical state of trace elements; X-ray imaging of materials; Residual stress analysis of industrial products; Pharmaceutical drug design
 
Medical Application: Application of high spatial resolution imaging techniques to medical diagnosis of cancers and capillaries
 To make these so many kind of experiments available, Spring-8 has 56 beam lines. In this study tour, we will drop in BL10XU, High Pressure Research Beam-line. Are you ready for the tour?  See you there! 
For more information about SPring-8, please visit their website.  http://www.spring8.or.jp/en/ 
More information about SPring-8 is here. Introductory Video http://www.spring8.or.jp/en/news_publications/publications/sp8_brochure/ If you want to know more details of various studies in many field using SPring-8, these site is available.http://www.spring8.or.jp/pdf/en/brochure/p07_10.pdfhttp://www.spring8.or.jp/en/news_publications/research_highlights/ Thanks to JASRI and RIKEN, this study tour and related materials become available. Materials are sited from SPring-8 home page. Especially, GeoS101x  team really appreciated for much help by Dr. Tomimatsu at JASRI. 

 Quiz
 
    The temperature rises approximately 3 K for every 100 m down near the Earth’s surface. Assuming this rate holds to a deeper level, at what depth will the mantle begin to melt?
    

       5 km
       

       50 km
       

       500 km
       

       5,000 km
       
What is temperature? Have you considered it before? How is it different from heat? Here, we will describe temperature simply while comparing it with heat. Many of you may have thought, "Heat and temperature? Aren't they the same?" But take note that they are different things, as we will now describe. Simply put, heat is energy, and temperature is a quantitative index or measure on how hot or cold something is hot or cold.  When objects at different temperatures are in contact with one another, heat transfers from the one with the higher temperature to the lower, to try to make both the same temperature. Once they are at the same temperature, there is no more observable heat transfer. This condition is specially called "equilibrium." Strictly speaking, temperature and energy are also related. Things, looking at them in minute detail, are made up of atoms and molecules. Those atoms and molecules are not visible to the eye, but we know that they gain energy and are making fine movements (thermal motion). Temperature is the measurement indicating how vigorous the thermal motion is, and heat is the process of transmitting energy. Explaining things in this vicinity can get a little complicated. Look into statistical thermodynamics for further information.  Thinking about this in relation to the Earth, the surface is cold, the temperature rises in the interior with increasing depth, and the temperature is very high at the center of the Earth. It follows that heat naturally tries to transfer from areas of high temperature to low, namely, from the interior of the Earth to the exterior. There are three mechanisms of heat transfer in this: conduction, convection, and radiation. We will discuss this in 4-2.  Let's look deeper into the heat of the interior of the Earth in 4-3, 4-4!  
There are over 20,000 hot spring facilities in Japan, and many Japanese enjoy bathing in onsen. Some hot spring facilities are also lodging facilities, hosting over 100,000,000 overnight guests a year. Literature from around the seventh century contain accounts about onsen, so we can see that the Japanese have been enjoying onsen since long ago. Today, hot springs are enjoyed in a variety of ways by the Japanese, from toji, medical treatment and rest at hot springs, to recreational use. In recent times, hot spring facilities are not limited to areas traditionally known for onsen, but ones in urban areas are increasing, using hot springs sourced by drilling to a depth of around 1,000 m. Why not casually try onsen while in Japan?   

 Quiz
 
    Figure represents the geotherm. Choose the appropriate temperature gradient of mantle at a boundary between the plate and the mantle ①~④ from the direction of arrow ①~④ in figure.
    

       ①
       

       ②
       

       ③
       

       ④
       
 Heat energy can be transported in three ways: radiation, conduction, and convection.   -Radiation-    Radiation is the movement of energy by electromagnetic waves (light), without using media. It can transfer heat in vacuums.  -Conduction- Conduction is the phenomenon in which the heat energy of atoms transfer from areas of high temperature to low. The result is that the energy which had been in the high-temperature atom (vibrating rapidly) decreases, and increases the strength of vibration of the low-temperature atom. Conduction is a phenomenon in which only energy is transferred, without movement of the medium. For example, when you touch a hot pot, you feel that it is hot! This is because the heat energy in the metal of the pot transferred to the lower-temperature surface of your hand, and the heat energy in the molecules in your hand increased.  -Convection- On the other hand, convection transfers heat by transporting the medium which has the heat. Conduction occurs while convection is occurring, but convection can transfer a much greater amount of heat than conduction.   In the Earth, heat is moving from the core, with the highest temperature, to cold outer space. In considering heat transport inside the Earth, heat transport by radiation is considered to be very extraordinarily small compared to conduction and convection, so conduction and convection are the major mechanisms of heat transport.  The method of heat transfer determines the temperature distribution of the Earth's interior, especially its temperature gradient. Where convection is occurring, heat is transported rapidly, so the temperature difference is comparatively small. In other words, the temperature gradient (how much the temperature rises according to depth) is small. On the other hand, with conduction, the temperature gradient is steep, and temperature changes radically with a small change in depth.  
What are the conditions under which convection occurs? The Earth's temperature increases the deeper that we travel underground. At high-temperature conditions which exist inside of the Earth, when the viscosity of substances creating a certain layer of the Earth is below a specific value, thermal convection occurs at that layer. Now, let's define the Rayleigh number.  (ρ: density at the standard state, g: gravitational acceleration, α: coefficient of thermal expansion, ΔT: temperature difference, L: thickness of fluid layer, η: viscosity, κ: thermal diffusivity) When the Rayleigh number is below a certain limit (Ra)c(critical Rayleigh number), heat is mainly transmitted by conduction. When the Rayleigh number is above a certain limit, heat is mainly transmitted by convection.  Rayleigh number inside of the Earth We learned that thermal convection occurs inside of the Earth at areas deeper than plates. Here, let's confirm this phenomenon by calculating an estimate for the Rayleigh number of the Earth's mantle. Although the critical Rayleigh number differs according to conditions, it is a value of approximately 103. We will use other well-known values for the other variables in the formula given above: density at the standard state ρ0(approx. 3,000 kg/m3), thermal diffusivity k (approx. 3×10-6m2/s), coefficient of thermal expansion α (approx. 1×10-5 /K), and gravitational acceleration g (approx. 10 m/s2). We will also use typical values for the temperature difference ΔT (1,000 K) and the viscosity η (1021 Pa•s; the average mantle viscosity). When assuming that the thickness of the fluid layer L is 100 km, Ra≒103. When considering the critical Rayleigh number to be approximately 103, this thickness is the minimum required condition for convection to occur. When substituting the actual mantle thickness of approximately 3,000 kilometers, Ra≒106and sufficiently violent convection will occur. Accordingly, this illustrates that convection is certainly occurring in the Earth's mantle. 
Here, to illustrate thermal convection, we present an experiment for observation, using miso soup, a traditional Japanese soup. EquipmentGlass cup, miso soup (or any liquid with powder), hot water  Further Study: This flow is famous in fluid dynamics, and is called the "Rayleigh–Bénard convection." Look into it if it interests you. The index called Rayleigh number mentioned here is a very important element, also in researching convection in the Earth's interior.  

 Quiz
 
    Which of the following is thought to move at approximately the same speed as the convection motion inside the mantle?
    

       the earth's revolution around the sun
       

       the earth’s rotation on its axis
       

       plate movement
       

       seismic wave
       
Now, let us examine the phase diagram of peridotite, the main material of the Earth's upper mantle. The simplified phase diagram of peridotite is shown below. The solidus is the curve indicating the temperature at which the substance begins to melt when the temperature of the substance is raised. In other words, it indicates the temperature at which all parts of the substance becomes solid when the temperature is lowered. The liquidus is the curve indicating the temperature at which the substance completely melts when the temperature of the substance is raised. In other words, it is the temperature at which the solid phase first begins when the temperature of the melted substance is lowered. You may be thinking about how, with ice and water, when the pressure is determined, the phase transition temperature between liquid and solid is unambiguous, and perhaps you maybe wondering why solidus and liquidus exist. This is because peridotite is not a pure substance. In other words, the composition of peridotite cannot be described in one simple chemical formula. "Peridotite" is a mixture made up of many components. In this way, when substances including many components are made to melt, there is a gap (the red area in the figure) between the temperatures where melting begins and ends.  The phase diagram of peridotite can be determined through high pressure experiment. (This is determined unrelated to the actual temperature of the Earth's interior.) Let us find the temperature of the Earth's interior by comparing it with its pressure—that is what we will discuss next.  
The phase diagram of olivine, the major mineral of peridotite, is as shown below. The change in phases of olivine are as shown below.   Further Study:  A portion of the Mg content in olivine can be replaced by Fe, this is called substitution. The amount of Fe changes olivine's phase diagram and its physical properties.  To summarize the method for determining the fixed point of temperature of the Earth's interior: (1) By determining the chemical composition and repeating high pressure experiments, a phase diagram of minerals can be determined. Once the composition is determined, the phase diagram can be determined independent of the temperature and pressure conditions in the Earth's interior. (2) By observing seismic waves, the boundaries of layers inside the Earth's interior can be determined. Additionally, depth and pressure correspond in the Earth's interior. (3) On the phase transition boundary on the phase diagram, we can mark the point corresponding to boundaries of layers of the Earth. (As described in 1-1-5, when either P or T is determined in addition to the composition, the other becomes determined.) This means that, by reading the temperature associated with this point, we can know the temperature at that depth.  
Below is the phase diagram of 4-3-2, with the addition of temperature profile near the plate and mantle boundary (red and blue curves).   Let us summarize the content of the video in this session. Mantle is solid, so the the temperature of the earth at a certain point must be lower than the solidus of peridotite.—(1) : The green arrow  We are able to observe the rise in temperature near the Earth's surface. Since heat is transferred by conduction near the surface, the geothermal gradient (thermal gradient of the Earth's interior) is extremely steep.—(2) : The red line  If this were to continue, the solidus curve and the temperature  of the Earth's interior would meet at a point. However, as you already studied in the previous section 4-2, in the Earth's interior, past a certain depth, convection of rocks is occurring. In areas where convection is occurring, the geothermal gradient would be a relatively gentle slope—(3) : The blue line , thus fulfill (1). 

 Quiz
 
    According to the lecture, which is the correct description of the estimated CMB temperature?
    

       Below 2500 K
       

       2500 K~3000 K
       

       3000 K~3600 K
       

       Above 3600 K
       
Week 4 has almost ended and we now have one week left. In addition to your interest in earth science, you now possess a certain level of knowledge in the subject. In this section, I would like to give a brief introduction of advanced research which is being conducted by our research group. The Hirose Laboratory is equipped with a diamond anvil cell, which is a device that generates high pressure. By using this cell, we conduct ultra high-pressure experiments aimed at understanding the interior of the Earth and other planets. Ultimately, our research aims to clarify the origins and evolution of these planets. Our group faces a never-ending series of difficulties when continually trying to conduct world-leading research. On the other hand, by implementing measures which the world has never seen before, we have been able to make numerous discoveries with students and other researchers. I would now like to introduce a few examples of those discoveries 2004: Reproduction of high-temperature, high-pressure conditions at the bottom of the mantle and discovery of post-perovskite  2004 doesn't seem that long ago. However, at that time, it was still difficult to reproduce the bottom of the mantle and conduct observations in situ. By repeatedly implementing new measures in our experiments, our research group succeeded in reproducing the environment at the bottom of the mantle. By doing so, we found a mineral unlike anything ever seen before. The name of this mineral is post-perovskite [Murakami et al. 2004 Nature]. Today, this is being called the most “significant discovery in the history of earth science in 30 years.”   2010: Reproduction of the center of the Earth Afterwards, our research group continued to implement new equipment as we sought to understand even deeper recesses of the Earth. In April 2010, we finally succeeded in achieving a pressure and temperature condition beyond 3.64 million atmospheric pressures and 5,000 K. In other words, we recreated the conditions at the center of the Earth for the first time in the history of the world. As a result of this research, we ascertained that the material at the center of the Earth has a hexagonal, close-packed structure where the iron atoms bond at high density [Tateno et al. 2010 Science]. Furthermore, the Hirose Laboratory has conducted a wide variety of research and technological development, including achievements such as realizing electrical conductivity measurement in high-temperature, high-pressure environments [Ohta et al. 2008 Science, etc.] and determining the melting temperature at the lowest portion of the mantle [Nomura et al. 2014 Nature]. Currently, my laboratory is interested in the themes of “determining light elements inside the Earth” and “understanding evolution of the Earth.” What was the Earth like long ago? How has the Earth changed during the past 4.6 billion years? Moving forward, our laboratory will continue to embrace new challenges and make cutting-edge discoveries in solid-earth science. Beginning from next week, we will study one of these cutting-edge topics: “the Earth and water.” Of course, water is an important substance which is a defining feature of the Earth. For example, if there were no water, life could not exist. On the other hand, if there were too much water, the Earth would be flooded. However, water may have had a profound effect on the evolution and formation process of the Earth. Moreover, water may be an important substance for clarifying the light elements which exists inside the Earth. From astronomers to researchers in high-pressure science, researchers from a wide range of fields are involved in the theme of “the Earth and water.” Today, this is a popular research field in which new discoveries are being made. Currently, there are still some topics which remain mired in the theoretical stages. However, this field is a case study for experiencing the dynamism of how science continues to advance and reveal the unknown. I hope that it will be an opportunity to convey the fun of science. Next week marks the start of our last lesson. Let's continue to give our best until the end of the course!!  
 Determination of light elements is one of the hot issues in high-pressure geoscience. Next graph shows the number of the publications for each light element(s). Horizontal axis represents year when published, and vertical axis shows the total number of papers published in the year. In this way, you can see this problem is still under discussion. To explain this density deficit with only one light element, following amount of them should be in the core. Solving the issue of light elements in the core may be clues to more profound problems such as Earth's composition, Earth's origin, and the beginning of lives! Please look forward to next week and you will learn about light elements inside the core included cutting-edge research topics! We introduce SPring-8 to you through a field work in this week because this facility is a really powerful tool to solve these basic questions based upon research results. So, after you finish the quiz, let's go to the fieldwork, "Field trip to SPring-8"!!  

 Quiz
 
    Choose which is the temperature that is about the same as the temperature of Earth’s center among the following.
    

       surface of the Sun
       

       hot spring
       

       body warmth
       

       center of the Sun
       

       volcanic magma
       
Thus far, we have learned about the layered structure inside of the Earth (Weeks 1 and 3), plate tectonics (Week 2), and temperature and heat transport inside of the Earth (Week 4). It is important to recognize that the Earth's current form was created through mutual interaction of these elements. For example, let's consider plates. Plates which are created at mid-ocean ridges eventually sink into ocean trenches. This process creates slabs (sunken plates). After temporarily stagnating at a phase boundary of 660 kilometers, these slabs eventually fall to the lower mantle. Of course, at this time, it would be unthinkable for a “blank area” equal to the size of the fallen plates to be created on the Earth's surface. Therefore, new plates are generated and substances from deep inside the Earth are pushed to the surface. This process drives the convection of the mantle. Through mantle convection, it is possible to efficiently move heat from the Earth's core-mantle boundary to the Earth's surface. This enables heat to pass through the core-mantle boundary, making it possible for hear from the center of the Earth's core to exceed the core-mantle boundary and move to the outside. (Conversely, if heat from the core-mantle boundary did not move to the Earth's surface, heat from the core would not be able to pass through via the core-mantle boundary.) As a result, convection occurs inside of the outer core. This convection generates the Earth's magnetic field. If a magnetic field did not exist, the surface of the Earth would be exposed to solar wind including radiation. Since radiation damages DNA, this would make it impossible for life to exist on the surface of the Earth (or, a totally different form of evolution may have occurred). Furthermore, it is believed that the inner core did not exist when the Earth first originated (although differing opinions exist today). It is thought that the inner core was formed when heat from the center of the Earth was carried to the surface and then cooled. The existence of the inner core promotes convection of the outer core. In turn, this stabilizes the magnetic field. Accordingly, the existence of the inner core may be an extremely important factor in creating a planet which nurtures life. I would now like to convey the following three points. (1) All of the phenomena which we have studied up to this point, from the surface of the Earth to the inner core, are linked and have a mutual effect on each other. For example, ◯Plate tectonics is a phenomenon caused when dynamics (transmission of substances and heat) from inside of the Earth appear on the Earth's surface. This is particularly true for mantle convection. ◯The movement phenomena of heat and substances (of course, in order to understand such phenomena, the chemical composition and mineral structure are essential) at each area inside of the Earth are related to the movement phenomena in other areas of the Earth. (Mantle convection drives convection of the outer core. Outer core convection stimulates generation of the inner core.) (2) When thinking about the Earth, please view it as a system composed of multiple sub-systems. (3) Of course, all of these phenomena affect the origin of life and our daily life. The Earth currently possesses such abundant life because each aspect of the Earth is interrelated. Understanding the inside of the Earth also leads to an understanding for the surface of our planet. By using this perspective to review what we have learned, you will achieve an even deeper understanding. 
In the previous section, I introduced how the circulation of substances and energy (heat) inside of the Earth leads to a variety of phenomena on the Earth while interacting with each sub-system. In this section, I would like you to consider the driving force behind the motion of the Earth. The Earth's substances neither disappear nor increase. (Of course, when speaking in great detail, substances from outer space fall in the form of meteorites and the atmosphere dissipates into outer space...) The force which has driven the Earth for 4.6 billion years is the thermal energy which exists inside of the Earth. The energy possessed by the Earth was determined at the time that the Earth was formed. The first is thermodynamic energy possessed by the substances which shaped the Earth (I'm sure you have seen pictures in which meteorites struck the Earth's surface and caused the temperature to rise), while the second is energy generated by the decay of radioactive elements. Unlike substances, the energy possessed by the Earth is decreasing rapidly. In other words, the Earth possesses great heat and this heat is dissipating into outer space. Now, is it possible for the Earth to regain heat? The answer is “no.” Heat only flows in one direction; that is, from a high-temperature area to a low-temperature area. (This is the second law of thermodynamics. Although it is possible to create water with a temperature of about 50°C by mixing 20°C water and 100°C water, the opposite not possible; in other words, 100°C water cannot be made from 50°C water without applying energy to the 50°C water.) This process is referred to as an “irreversible process.” The Earth uses mantle convection and other phenomena to carry heat to the Earth's surface and then disperse that heat into outer space. This is an irreversible process. In other words, throughout the Earth's history (phenomena which occur upon reaching a certain temperature), there are things which only occur once. When the Earth first originated, it possessed an enormous amount of energy. At this time, the Earth was a molten mass called a “magma ocean.”  From here, crystallization occurred. This formed the mantle and crust. Time passed and the inner core was created, thus generating a stable magnetic field. In this way, the Earth is evolving through the process of losing heat. As the Earth continues to cool in the future, there will be new phenomena unlike anything before. Each of the major changes in Earth’s history only occurs once within the history of the Earth. This is the evolution of the Earth, also known as “thermal history.” 
In this week you will learn about the temperature inside the Earth. Here are the learning objectives for this week. Upon the completion of this week’s units, you will be able to; explain the temperature structure in the interior of the Earth. We hope you enjoy your journey in week 4. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE WEEK 4 TEST Here is the quiz for Week 4. Read the information below and answer the questions. You can always go back to the previous weeks to review what you've learned so far. 

 Q1
 
   This figure represents a geotherm from the surface to outer core in the Earth. Choose a mechanism dominating the heat transportation in each region (1.red, 2.yellow, 3.green, and 4.blue).
   
   1. red region
   
 
   2. yellow region
   
 
   3. green region
   
 
   4. blue region
   
 
 Q2
 
    How fast are the mantle rocks moving with the convection?
    

       0 cm (not moving)
       

       a few centimeters to a few tens of centimeters per year
       

       a few meters to a few tens of meters per year
       

       a few kilometers to a few tens of kilometers per year
       
 Q3
 
    Choose the reason that gives the best explanation why we can assume that convection occurs in the outer core?
    

       The Earth has a magnetic field
       

       Meteorites often fall to the Earth
       

       Convection occurs in the lower mantle
       

       The Earth has volcanic activity
       
 Q4
 
   According to the lecture, the temperature at the CMB is estimated to be 3000 K~3600 K. How can we constrain these temperatures?
   
   1. 3600 K
   

       The temperature has NOT to be over the melting point of lower mantle.
       

       The temperature has to be over the melting point of lower mantle.
       

       The temperature has to be over the melting point of outer core.
       

       The temperature has NOT to be over the melting point of outer core.
       
   2. 3000 K
   

       The temperature has NOT to be over the melting point of lower mantle.
       

       The temperature has to be over the melting point of lower mantle.
       

       The temperature has to be over the melting point of outer core.
       

       The temperature has NOT to be over the melting point of outer core.
       
Download the summary (PDF) This link is available for Chrome, Firefox and Opera If you can't download the file from the above link, then right-click and choose "Download Linked File" 

 Quiz a
 
    Choose the most correct description about the Earth’s sea from below.
    

       The mass and volume of seawater are quite small when compared to the Earth as a whole.
       

       Seawater accounts for a large proportion of the entire Earth in volume and mass.
       

       In this whole universe, Celestial body that water is present has not been found except for the Earth.
       

       There is no creature in the Earth’s ocean.
       
 Quiz b
 
    If the height of the sea water becomes higher than the current, how much landmass would remain? Let's take a look at using the figure below.
    
    If the sea depth becomes 1.5 times higher than the current sea depth, how much does the cumulative surface area become?
    
    Note: It is estimated that the current sea depth is 4km, and the current cumulative surface area is 35% of the total surface of the earth.
    

       20%
       

       15%
       

       10%
       

       5%
       
Extrasolar planet, Exoplanet Extrasolar planets are planets that orbit stars other than the sun. Extrasolar planet is abbreviated as exoplanet. An exoplanet does not shine on its own, similar to our earth, and thus it is difficult to observe directly. As such, a method which observes in some way influences as a result of the existence of the planet around its star is adopted. In addition, before the first exoplanet was discovered, people were looking for star systems similar to the solar system and thus it took some time before the first one was discovered. In 1995, the existence of a star called 51 Pegasi with a Jupitar-class mass was confirmed. It was the first discovered exoplanet that orbits a main sequence star. As a result, since 1990, exoplanets were being discovered one after successively and as of May 2016, there are approximately 3,400 exoplanets that have been discovered.  Types of exoplanets There are many types of exoplanets, some quite different from planets in our solar system. Here, I will introduce a few representative types of exoplanets. Hot Jupiter: Giant gas planets with Jupiter-class sizes that orbit very closely to their stars at high speeds and in short cycles. Planets that follow similar orbits with similar sizes as Neptune are called Hot Neptunes. Eccentric planets: Exoplanets with large orbital eccentricities that follow elliptical orbit paths far from a true circle. The ones that are easy to discover are Hot Jupitars and Eccentric planets.  Super Earth: Planets that have masses that are multiple times of that of Earth. With improvements in observation techniques and accuracy, planets of lower masses are gradually being discovered. Pulsar planet: Planets that are orbiting around not a common stars but rapidly rotating neutron stars, in other words planets that orbit the pulsars. The first pulsar planet was discovered in 1992. Achievements of the Kepler The Kepler space telescope used by NASA to discover Earth-like extrasolar planets has contributed a lot to the discovery of exoplanets. The Kepler telescope launched by NASA in 2009, continually observed the light intensity of 100,000 stars over a period of three-and one-half years. As a result, the Kepler telescope detected more than 4,000 exoplanet candidates. Currently, more than 1,000 of these candidates have been confirmed as exoplanets! In addition to enabling the statistical research of exoplanets, this revolutionary telescope has successively discovered exoplanets which resemble the Earth and has contributed to dramatic advances in research in the field. For more details, please refer to http://kepler.nasa.gov/ 
From dozens of years ago, the imaginations of scientists and authors have been occupied by the idea of exoplanets; in other words, planets orbiting stars other than the Sun. However, the existence of exoplanets was only scientifically confirmed in 1995 (exactly 20 years ago in October!), shortly before the beginning of the 21st century. The discovered exoplanet, later given the name "Hot Jupiter," bears no resemblance to planets in our solar system. Hot Jupiter is a gas giant which resembles Jupiter and orbits a mere 0.05 AU from the central star. This close proximity exerts perturbation on the central star and the resulting vibration was observed as a Doppler effect of light. Since this initial discovery, thousands of exoplanets have been observed, a number which greatly exceeded initial expectations. However, the discovery of these planets is completely attributable to the growth and advancement of observation technology. This article gives a simple introduction of methods which have been devised and developed for observing exoplanets.  This is the first method used to successfully observe exoplanets orbiting a main-sequence star. Unlike the Sun, planets do not emit bright light and are very dark. Therefore, instead of directly observing planets, the existence of many exoplanets has been confirmed indirectly by observing the effect of those planets on the central star. The Doppler shift method observes a Doppler shift in light arriving from the central star. This Doppler shift is caused when the planet interacts with the central star (imagine how the body of a hammer thrower is swung around). Put simply, when the central star in question is moving in the direction of the observer, the light wavelength is shortened and changes to a blue color. On the other hand, when the central star is moving away from the observer, the light wavelength is elongated and changes to a red color. The weight of the planet and distance from the central star can be estimated from this periodic vibration of the wavelength.   2) Transit Method Together with the Doppler shift method, the transit method is one of the most effective methods of observation. In the transit method, observation is conducted for the phenomenon of a temporary decrease in brightness of the central star occurring when the exoplanet passes between the central star and the observer (namely, the Earth). This size of the exoplanet is determined based on the rate of decrease in brightness.            3) Direct Observation Method In recent years, improvements in observation technology (in particular, technology for "hiding" excessively-bright central stars) have made it possible to roughly view the actual form of exoplanets. For example, the Subaru Telescope located on the summit of Mauna Kea in Hawaii can capture the form of planets which reflect the light of central stars. The image on the right was released in 2009 and shows what are thought to be two planets (B and C) orbiting GJ758 (http://subarutelescope.org).©NAOJ   4) Microlensing Method When a planet cuts in front of a light source such as a star, the light passing through the area which is warped by gravity surrounding the planet is collected as if through the lens. As a result, light becomes stronger for just an instant. The microlensing method uses this phenomenon to observe exoplanets. Although this method is capable of observing solitary floating planets (or unknown substance the size of planets!?) drifting through space, it is not possible to observe the same planet again.      5) Astrometry Method The astrometry method is probably the oldest method proposed for observing exoplanets. This method uses the simple principle of confirming a shift in the position of the celestial sphere of a star which is orbiting planets. From the early 20th century, this method was frequently used in attempts to search for exoplanets. However, all such attempts ended in vain. There is no room in this article to discuss the drama surrounding the first discovery of exoplanets. In 2009, the observation of an exoplanet using this method was reported. 6) Pulsar Timing Method Pulsars are neutron stars which revolve at high speeds. As implied by their name, pulsars periodically emit electromagnetic waves in the form of pulses. Normally, the pulse cycle is extremely stable. However, when there is a planet in the vicinity of the pulsar, this cycle is disturbed by gravitational effects. In 1992, this method was used to discover a planet orbiting a pulsar, a finding which came in advance of the discovery of planets surrounding main-sequence stars. 
We now know that there are various types of exoplanets (Notes 5-1-2). However, since direct confirmation by going to these exoplanets is not possible, how do we know that there are many types of exoplanets? There are two main methods for discovering exoplanets (Notes 5-1-3), the transit method and the Doppler method. The transit method observes the phenomenon where the observed brightness of the central star from Earth temporarily drops when the exoplanet crosses in front of its central star. The fading rate of the central star will then be known and the size of the exoplanet that will cross the star again is inferred. NASA’s space telescope, the Kepler, has discovered more than 1,000 exoplanets using this transit method. On the other hand, the Doppler method confirms the existence of exoplanets using the phenomenon where the exoplanet shakes its central star. This ‘wobble’ determines the distance between the central star and the exoplanet and their masses. In other words, after an exoplanet is observed through the transit method, the planet’s size and mass can be known by using the Doppler method for further observations. Once the size and mass is known, the exoplanet’s composition and internal structure ought to become known. Indeed, some observations show that there are many exoplanaets composed by a lot of water. Corresponding to those “water-rich” exoplanets, our Earth has small amount of water. In this sense, we can not call our Earth as “the watery planet”. For more details, please refer to: http://kepler.nasa.gov/news/nasakeplernews/index.cfm?FuseAction=ShowNews&NewsID=357 

 Quiz
 
    The Earth is inside of the snow line defined by astrophysics. According to the lecture, where is water believed to have come from?
    

       Since Jupiter possesses enormous mass, it is believed that the gravitational disturbances caused meteorites containing water ice to fall onto the Earth's surface.
       

       Since water inside of the snow line exists as water vapor, it is believed that the Earth has captured these water vapor by gravity.
       

       The Earth has gradually acquired the hydrogen ions contained in the solar wind, and these hydrogen became water by reacting with oxygen.
       

       Life is flourishing on the Earth’s surface.
       
In Week 5-1, we learned that the volume of water is important for diversity of the environment on Earth and for life. Then, here, we learned where this water came from and where it is now. Here, let us consider a little deeper about the origin of water. Where did the water on Earth come from? There are thought to be three general possibilities.  The materials of Earth contained water The most simple thinking is the theory that, when Earth formed, the materials—planetoids—already contained water. We learned in the lesson that Earth is inside the snow line, and water would vaporize. However, when the Earth formed, there is a possibility that its surroundings were filled with a large amount of gas, and light from the sun did not adequately reach it. In other words, there is a possibility that the snow line may have been much closer to the sun than at present. There is also a possibility that water molecules were absorbed by rocks, which are solids, and both formed Earth. Water was transported in from outside the snow line This is a theory which was presented in the lesson. If the snow line were in the same position at the formation of Earth as it is today, water would have had to be transported in from outside the line. The snow line of the present day lies between Mars and Jupiter, at a distance of 2.7AU from the sun. In this area there are many asteroids. It is thought that there used to be much more, but they were ejected by gravitational forces, such as of Jupiter. Some of those ejected asteroids must have collided with Earth, with water contained. Take a look at this theory described in detail at  http://planetplanet.net/2013/09/25/where-did-earths-water-come-from/ . The key to this theory is the travel of Jupiter (and Saturn). These giant planets are thought to have met resistance from gases of the primordial solar nebula (Note: the protoplanetary disk of the solar system is specially called the primordial solar nebula), and to have fallen toward the central star. Eventually, when gases along the orbit of Jupiter and Saturn dissipated, (and only if Jupiter was closer to the center than Saturn,) they are thought to have reversed direction and to have moved away from the sun! This attractive theory is called the Grand Tack model (http://planetplanet.net/2013/08/02/the-grand-tack/). When giant planets travel inside the solar system in such a manner, small asteroids and ice planetoids are ejected by gravitational forces. However, we do not know if Jupiter and Saturn did, in fact, move in such a way.  Earth captured surrounding gases When Earth was formed, did gases from the primordial solar nebula remain around it? (Gases of the primordial solar nebula dissipate over time.) If any remained, there is a possibility that Earth gained water from it. The principal component of the gases is hydrogen. Earth could have captured the hydrogen and cause it to react with the iron oxide (FeO), for example, which is plentiful in Earth's magma ocean, to gain water (recall Week4-3). The important factor is whether Earth could have grown to a large enough size (mass) while the gases still remained around Earth. However, we still do not have a clear answer to this question. As we have discussed above, to unravel the origin of water, how Earth and the whole of the solar system came to be must be unraveled. When Earth was formed, were there gases remaining in the primordial solar nebula? Were Jupiter and Saturn really traveling to and fro inside the solar system? Earth science is no longer scholarship of Earth alone. It is being reevaluated from a larger standpoint, as planetary science. ReferencesGenda, H. and Ikoma, T.  2008. Origin of the Earth's ocean --- Current situation any primordial evolution of D/H ratio ---.  Journal of the Japanese Society for Planetary Sciences Vol. 17, No. 4, 238-243.  
In Week 5-2, we learned about the formation of the Earth. Today, we will go back to material slightly before the previous class and briefly examine how our solar system and other star systems were formed. 1) Formation of Protoplanetary Disks Almost all planets orbit around stars. Moreover, all planets circle around stars in the same direction. These characteristics are well explained by the theory that planets did not come to stars from a different location, but rather were formed from disk-like objects which orbit around stars. Scientists refer to these disks as "protoplanetary disks." It is believed that protoplanetary disks were the inevitable product of the formation of central stars. Both central stars and protoplanetary disks were formed from a molecular cloud cores which are large gaseous masses with a radius up to 1,000 AU. These large gaseous masses do not simply drift quietly through space; rather, there is a certain amount of flow within the gas cloud. Eventually, the gas cloud will begin to contract due to gravity, and the flow will cause rotation to begin as well. It is more efficient to contract (the phenomenon can also be referred to as "falling") while rotating. In the case of a rotating object, centrifugal force acts in a vertical direction at the axis of rotation. The force prevents the falling of gas from that direction, and the congested gas creates a disk. This is the most intuitive explanation for the formation of protoplanetary disks. In reality, it is necessary to consider a variety of more difficult phenomenon (conveyance of angular momentum, the effect of magnetic fields, radiation of the central star, etc.). Incidentally, a jet erupts from the central star in the direction of the axis of rotation which is not shielded by the disk. 2) Formation of Planets After the protoplanetary disk is formed and the jet eruption finally subsides, a planet is finally formed. The disk is mainly composed of gases such as hydrogen. However, prior to such gases, a minute amount of solid matter (rock and frozen water) dust sinks to the "midplane" (the plane which passes the equator of the central star) of the disk. While sinking, the dust collides and unites with other dust (there is also a theory which states that planets are formed through direct gravitational contraction of gas!). This unification is repeated many times and dust of µm size gradually grows larger, eventually reaching a size exceeding one kilometer (how many times does the dust increase in size??). The result is the planetoid planetesimal that was previously introduced in class. As learned in class, at the time that planetesimals are formed, water undergoes a phase change depending on the distance from the central star. When close to the central star, water changes to gas. When far from the central star, water changes to a solid (ice). In terms of our solar system, the materials used for planetesimals are rock only for planets from Mercury to Mars, while planets from Jupiter and further outwards consisting of the two substances of rock and ice. As a result, the planetesimals (or the larger protoplanets) from Jupiter and further outwards grow larger than planets closer to the Sun. Eventually, the outer planetesimals reach a size where the gravitational capture of gas is possible. The gravity of the captured gas causes the planetesimal to consume an ever larger amount of gas. The planetesimal then grows rapidly, gathering a large amount of gas around the solid core. This is the process by which Jupiter and Saturn were formed. Planets from Mars and inwards captured only a very small amount of gas, being formed almost exclusively from rock. Furthermore, gas slowly clears as the planet grows in size. The dissipation of gas is caused when radiation from the central star slowly blows gas outside of the solar system, and when the gas itself disperses outside. It is said that the process of dissipation takes about one million years. However, in the case of Uranus and Neptune, planets which are even farther from the Sun than Saturn, the small amount of material available results in the gas dispersing before a sufficient amount of gas can be captured. As a result, these two planets now consist mainly of ice and rock. 3) Diversity of Planets  Until now, we have learned about the process by which our solar system was formed. But, how were exoplanets formed? Assuming that protoplanetary disks are a universal phenomenon, it would seem that exoplanets should be identical to planets in our solar system. However, solar systems are actually quite diverse. At what stage was this diversity born? The first cause of diversity are differences in initial conditions; specifically, in molecular clouds. There are many different sizes of molecular clouds and a variety of elemental compositions (although hydrogen remains the main component, compositions with heavy elements are different). The strength of the nearby magnetic field also varies according to the molecular cloud. It is believed that these differences in initial conditions create differences in protoplanetary disks, as well as changes in the process of planet formation. The second cause of planetary diversity is the migration of planets. During the process of growth, planets interact with gas and other planets (planetesimals and protoplanets). Firstly, gas orbits the central star at a slower speed than solids. As a result, solids are exposed to gas resistance and fall to the central star. When planets fall in this way, Hot Jupiters are formed. It is believed that planets in our solar system also moved closer to and farther away from the Sun while growing in size. On the other hand, solids also interact gravitationally. This makes it impossible for planets to maintain a perfect circular orbit, causing planets to fly far away or to enter an elliptical orbit. In actuality, planets with elliptical orbits have been discovered and are referred to as "eccentric planets." Now, if the parameters of molecular clouds are known, is it possible to replicate the growth and movement of planets and to predict exoplanets which will be formed in the future? Most likely, such predictions are not possible. A major factor influencing planetary growth and movement is turbulence of gas in the disk. This is a random or chaotic phenomenon which is extremely difficult to predict. In other words, although modern science has clarified that protoplanetary disks are formed from molecular cloud cores, there is still little understanding regarding the subsequent growth of planets and formation of solar systems. ReferencesWatanabe, J. (Section 6.1) and Kitamura, Y. (Section 6.2) In: Watanabe, J., Ida, S., Sasaki, S. 2008. Solar system and planets (Astronomy in the present day, Series 9). Nippon Hyoron Sha Co., Ltd.  
In this further study topic, I want to introduce the cutting-edge topic of the planetary formation theory. Many scientists are tackling the research in order to understand how the Earth was formed. There are still so many open questions. Following discussion is from the webpage of Prof. Sean Raymond, who is an astronomer at the Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Bordeaux in Bordeaux, France. He researches water delivery to the Earth. Thanks to him, we can provide an opportunity to you to learn one of the up-to-date science. Please enjoy!   Terrestrial Planet Formation and Water Delivery in the Solar System (From  Prof. Raymond's webpage)Despite their much smaller masses, the terrestrial planets form slower than gas giant planets. We know this for sure for the Earth from a combination of isotopic measurements -- which show the last big impact on Earth happened about 30-100 million years after it started -- and astronomical observations that have shown that the typical lifetime of a gaseous protoplanetary disk is only a few million years. So, the last phase of terrestrial planet formation occurs in the presence of the giant planets. The last phase in the growth of terrestrial planets involves the collisional accretion of a population of planetary embryos and planetesimals. In the simulations from the following movies we attempted to reproduce the inner Solar System. These attempts were, in almost all cases, unsuccessful. In particular, we were thwarted by the so-called Mars problem (Wetherill 1991): planets in Mars' vicinity were systematically too massive by a large factor. Despite this, these simulations did help to uncover many of the details of the accretion process, to demonstrate the effect of several parameters, and to show that water-rich asteroids could indeed have delivered water to the growing Earth. This movie (You can see it from here. Please click the first figure.) is a simulation from Raymond, Quinn & Lunine (2006). The simulation starts from 1885 roughly Moon-sized planetary embryos from 0.5-5 AU, and includes a fully-formed Jupiter at 5.5 AU. Note that Red = dry and blue = wet (scale is on the color bar). When the color of an object changes, it implies mixing between different radial zones. This is the basis for the asteroidal model for the origin of Earth's water. Further studyThe conclusion of the paper is that "standard" accretion models don't appear to be able to reproduce the Solar System's terrestrial planets. However, by considering the effect of Jupiter and Saturn's early orbital evolution we came up with an alternative model that can solve the Mars problem and reproduce the inner Solar System. That model is called the Grand Tack.    ReferenceWebpage by Prof. Sean Raymond  http://www.obs.u-bordeaux1.fr/e3arths/raymond/movies_waterdelivery.html 

 Quiz
 
    What term is used to refer to the condition in which the entire Earth was covered in magma?
    

       Magma ocean
       

       Magma flood
       

       Magma plains
       

       Magma earth
       
What the early Earth was like, is a great question of Earth Science. Earth’s formation was 4.6 billion years ago. Scientists consider that almost all of -- or majority part of -- the Earth was molten at that time because of the collision of planetesimals to the Earth. We called it "Magma-Ocean". After this period, inside of the Earth, crystallisation of ;minerals occurred. At that time, chemical components partitioned to the early atmosphere, the early ocean, the early crust, the early mantle and the early core. They could be different from counterparts of today's the Earth. There are so many interesting topics geoscientists should challenge. In order to understand the origin of life, we need information about the environment of the early Earth. For example, what kind of elements were in the early atmosphere, ocean and crust? How high the temperature of the Earth was? Where the life was born? The emergence of Earth's life was around 4 billion years ago,only 0.6 billion years after the Earth was formed. Unfortunately we can find few geological evidences at that period because almost all early rocks have disappeared from the recent Earth's surface. We need to take a bottom up approach, which means that we should consider the how the Earth was formed to solve the question about the origin of life. Therefore, understanding chemical partitioning in whole the early Earth is really important and Deep Earth Science has a important roll.   Further study : Magma ocean of the Early EarthDo you want to know more details about the magma ocean and differentiation? Following scientific reviews are really helpful (but both of them are not free).http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v441/n7095/full/nature04763.html http://scitation.aip.org/content/aip/magazine/physicstoday/article/64/12/10.1063/PT.3.1362  
Hydrogen has recently been receiving much attention as light elements of the Earth's core. Planetary formation theory suggested that a large amount of water, much more than is in the oceans, could have been brought to the Earth during its accretion. Hydrogen is a strong siderophile element (see 3-1-5) and could be incorporated into the core as a consequence of a reaction between water and molten iron in a magma ocean [Okuchi, 1997 Science]. (Of course, as you learnt in 4-4-3, there are still many discussions about the light elements in the Earth's core.)  Scince hydrogen is a light element(s), it can account for around 30 atomic percent of all elements in the Earth's core. Therefore, property of FeHx≤1 are important to test the hypothesis. Three kinds of phase of FeHx~1  are reported so far.  Further study: Structure of FeHx~1 Red spheres indicates regular position of iron atom and blue spheres of hydrogen atom. Dot-surface sphere shows ideal radii of each atom. They are drown by VESTA, 3D visualisation program for crystal structure. a) dhcp: Double Hexagonal Closed Packed (dhcp) Structure, P63/mmc b) hcp: Hexagonal Closed Packed (hcp) Structure, P63/mmc c) fcc: Face Centered Cubic (fcc) Structure, Fmmcf. All of them are closed packed structure but stacking patterns of iron atoms are different; dhcp’s pattern is A, B, A, C, A, B, …, hcp’s pattern is A, B, A, B, …, and fcc’s pattern is A, B, C, A, B, C, A, …    However, the effect of hydrogen on the property of iron is not well known so far because it is difficult to determine experimentally. Now, Hirose lab is performing experiments on Fe-H and Fe-Si-H alloys. Following figure shows our experimental method.  We loaded FeSi or Fe into a diamond-anvil cell, and then liquid hydrogen was introduced to a sample chamber below 20 K. I took following picture from the side window of liquid hydrogen loading system during experiment. The white line near the top of the window was interface between H2 gas and H2 liquid. The sample chamber and diamond anvil was soaked into liquid hydrogen.  It is a up-to-date (and still undergoing) topic of high pressure geoscience. There are so many trial and error in experiment. However, we believe these studies will reveal surprising facts and could grant a lot of dreams to us. 
NOTE: There are corrections to some transcripts. 2:19 In Week 2, we learned that → In Week 4, we learned that 5:28 Let’s summarize what we have learned in Week 4. →  Let’s summarize what we have learned in Week 5.  

 Quiz a
 
    About how much water (hydrogen) is contained in the core compared with the amount of sea water?
    

       Nearly the same amount of sea water
       

       80 times of sea water
       

       800 times of sea water
       

       1/80 times of sea water
       
 Quiz b
 
    CHALLENGE!
    
    Inclusions in diamonds from the mantle transition zone (under 410 to 660 km from the surface of the Earth) was found to contain 1.0 wt% of water. Suppose that this value represents the water content of this transition zone. It is estimated that the density of the mantle transition zone is \(3.5 [g/cm^3]\) and the volume of the mantle transition zone is approximately \(1.1*10^{11} [km^3] \). In this case, how much water is contained in the transition zone compared to the water contained in the ocean?
    
    Note: Total water contained in the ocean is approximately \(2.0*10^{24} [g] \)
    
     [kg]
    
    . (We are very sorry that the unit of the ocean's mass was wrong.)
    

       0.02 times
       

       0.2 times
       

       2 times (twice)
       

       20 times
       
Are there any celestial bodies apart from earth that supports life? In order to answer this question, we have to consider various conditions on the surface of the celestial body, including the condition that allows the existence of life at a certain point in time, the condition that gives birth to life, and the condition that supports life, etc. Of the above three conditions, the first and the third are called ‘Habitable condition’ and ‘continuously habitable condition’ respectively (Kasting et al, 1993). Of these varying conditions, one condition in particular cannot be missing. That is ‘the existence of liquid water on the surface of the celestial body.’ Liquids are absolutely essential for life as a means of transporting substances, for chemical reactions, etc. In particular, hydrogen and oxygen, the main constituent elements of water, exist in abundance in the solar composition (learnt in week 3) and water exists as a very stable liquid in a wide range of temperatures. Furthermore, as the water molecule is polarized, liquid water is excellent as a place for chemical reactions. In actual fact, our human bodies are made up predominantly of water! So, where do the “habitable” celestial bodies with such liquid water on their planet surfaces exist? We call this region the “Habitable Zone”. (Once you know this, it will come in handy in “the search for E.T.”) Assume a planet made up of rocks similar to Earth which has an atmosphere. In addition, assume that the planet already has sufficient water as water is ubiquitous. Then, the problem will be whether the planet’s surface will be at the “temperature where water is liquid (0-100℃ at 1 atmospheric pressure) .” What determines the planet’s surface temperature? The answer is “the distance from the central star” and “atmospheric volume and composition.”  Firstly, when the distance to the central star is close, … Hot! The heat of the central star reaches the planet as radiation, namely light. Although light emitted from the central star radiates in space, its strength reduces in inverse proportion to the square of the distance from the central star. As such, the temperature of the planet’s surface gets hotter the closer it is to the central star, and gets colder the further it is from the central star. The diagram above (from Wikipedia; https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable_zone) is a schematic representation of the habitable zone. The central star does not necessarily have the same “property” as the sun. Smaller stars are not as bright (hot), and bigger stars shine more strongly. (What type of habitable planets exist around what type of central stars? Find out more in Notes 5-4-4) Next, the planet’s atmospheric volume and composition vary widely by planet. However, the most important thing is the amount of “greenhouse gases” in the atmosphere. You probably know that “greenhouse gases” is recently becoming a big problem even for our Earth. “Greenhouse gases”, such as carbon dioxide, methane gas and water (water vapor), absorb infrared rays emitted from the earth’s surface and prevent heat from escaping into space. If you would like to know how strong the effect is, just look at our neighboring planet Venus! (For the difference between Venus and Earth, please refer to Notes 5-4-3.) In addition, depending on the composition and volume of atmosphere, the amount and composition of clouds change, as does the exoplanet’s reflectivity (albedo). The higher the albedo, (fundamentally) light is reflected from the central star and thus the smaller the effect that warms the planet up. By considering these two conditions at the same time, we can deduce the habitable zone. Of course, we will not know the exoplanet’s atmospheric volume and composition, but if we know the size of its central star (property) and the distance the planet is from it, we can infer whether that planet is within the habitable zone. In reality, many exoplanets thought to be within the habitable zone have been found. On the other hand, this habitable zone is not everything. In our solar system, there are “icy satellites”. Despite having their surface covered with thick ice, they have vast oceans underneath. These satellites orbit around planets like Jupiter and Saturn and have similar sizes as, or are slightly bigger, than Earth’s moon. In reality, from the cracks in the ice of these satellites, the spraying of internal sea water has been found and thus the existence of life is anticipated. It is said that Enceladus has the possibility that life exist there. ReferencesKasting, J.F., Whitmire, D.P., Reynolds, R.T., 1993. Habitable Zones around Main Sequence Stars. Icarus 101, 108-128, doi: 10.1006/icar.1993.1010.Abe, Y. 2009. “Frontier seminar/text” Origin and evolution of habitable planets, no. 1. Journal of the Japanese Society for Planetary Sciences Vol. 18, No. 4, 194-215. 
 Venus is next to Earth. Venus is a planet made up of the same rocks as Earth and is of a similar size too. However, its surface is covered by thick clouds of carbon dioxide. It rains sulfuric acid and the temperature near its ground surface reaches up to 500℃! It is definitely not a planet that supports life. So, why is the environments this different for Earth and Venus? Recall the content we learnt in 5-4-2. The habitable zone, in other words ‘regions where liquid water exists on the surfaces’, is determined by the planet’s distance to the central star (namely the sun), and the volume and composition of the atmosphere. As you know, Venus revolves on an orbital path closer to the sun than Earth (thus Venus is close to the sun and i.e. one can only see dawn and evening there), and the radiation from the sun is great. The main constituent of Venus’s atmosphere is the carbon dioxide that causes a strong greenhouse effect! Thus, even though Earth and Venus are brother stars that are very similar structurally, they have very different environments. In fact, this kind of “Venus type” and “Earth type” classification is probably common in the universe. Hamano et al. (2013) simulated the evolution of planets such as Earth and Venus from their initial formation, and showed that the fates of planets can be divided into two types based on their distance from the central star. For both the “Earth type” and “Venus type”, when the planets were initially formed, the surfaces melted as learnt in our lesson. Then, the melted ground surfaces and the planets’ atmospheres mutually interact to form the atmospheric structures and compositions, etc. Everything was consistently simulated. By doing so, for a planet which has an orbit path out of a certain boundary a certain boundary, the almost-melted ground surface cools and solidify and forms oceans similar to Earth. However, for a planet which follows an orbit path on the inside the boundary a certain boundary, its surface does not really solidify and the water is all lost to outer space. …, this is Venus. For more details, please refer to: http://old.elsi.jp/en/press_release/ References Hamano, K., Abe, Y., Genda, H., 2013. Emergence of two types of terrestrial planet on solidification of magma ocean. Nature 497, 607-610, doi: 10. 1038/nature12163. 
 We know that exoplanets orbit around stars, like Earth, Mars, and Venus around the sun. In particular, we know that there are exoplanets like Earth that can support life. The place where planets that can support life exist is called the Habitable Zone, and we studied this in Notes 5-4-2. So where are these planets that are similar to Earth? Let me introduce an interesting research (Tian and Ida, 2015) that was done recently. They researched conditions that allow liquid water to exist on the planet’s surface in addition to an ocean-continent ratio of approximately 1:1, namely planets with similar conditions to Earth. The importance of the ocean-continent ratio to life is highlighted in this week’s lecture. They did a simulation on what type of planets are formed around stars of 0.3, 0.5 and 1.0 times the mass of the Sun and then on how much water those planets can obtain and maintain. As a result, they discovered that at 1.0 times the Sun’s mass, i.e. around stars similar to the Sun, planets form that have environments similar to Earth.  For more details, please refer to:http://www.titech.ac.jp/news/2015/029933.html ReferencesTian, F., Ida, S., 2015. Water contents of Earth-mass planets around M dwarfs. Nature Geoscience 8, 177-180, doi: 10. 1038/ngeo2371. 
In this week you will learn about the Earth’s water. Here are the learning objectives for this week. Upon the completion of this week’s units, you will be able to; explain about water inside the Earth in addition to the oceans. Welcome to Week 5. This is at last, the final week for DES. I hope that you have all enjoyed yourselves. Thank you for participating in the class.  I hope that you will feel free to post notes about anything that is difficult to understand in this text or any omissions on the discussion board. You can contribute to future class participants by doing so.  Now, week 5 will be a bit different from up to now. In this section we will mobilize what we have learned up to now to look into the issue of how much water there is on Earth. The content here has yet to be written in textbooks (and is still being debated among scientists). Rather than for the sake of acquiring new knowledge, please accept this in the spirit of experiencing how scientists are thinking about what and what is going on in the vanguard of science.  There are few materials this week in that connection. On the other hand, there will be a report at the end. Put what you have learned to work and don’t hesitate to try and create a report that will make people stop and think when they read it. The reports will be evaluated by peer review.  Okay, let’s begin our final week, Week 5. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE WEEK 5 Quiz Here is the quiz for Week 5. Read the information below and answer the questions. You can always go back to the previous weeks to review what you've learned so far. 

 Q1
 
    In this week, we learned that liquid water is essential for life flourishing.
    
    Which of the following is thought to be a suitable reason for life having flourished on Earth?
    

       Earth is the only planet with water(or ice) in the whole universe
       

       Earth is the planet occupied by the greatest proportion of water
       

       Earth is the planet covered with so small amount of water that land and ocean can coexist.
       

       Earth is the planet that is covered with 14-15 plates.
       
 Q2
 
    According to the lecture, how did Earth gain its water?
    

       Earth was originally outside the snow line and gained ice but the snow line gradually moved to outer solar system and left the Earth behind.
       

       Earth was outside the snow line at its birth, where it gained ice, and  gradually moved inside the snow line
       

       Earth was inside the snow line at its birth but gradually moved to outside of the snow line, where it gained ice
       

       Earth was originally inside the snow line, but gained it by planetoids with ice coming in from outside of the snow line
       
 Q3
 
    When Earth had a magma ocean, what area is thought to have had the highest amount of water (hydrogen)?
    

       Primordial atmosphere
       

       Primordial ocean
       

       Magma ocean
       

       Iron core
       
 Q4
 
    According to the lecture, what happened to most of the water which came to Earth?
    

       Most evaporated, leaving only the oceans
       

       It was incorporated deep inside Earth
       

       It is absorbed in the plates of Earth
       

       It is dissolved in Earth's atmosphere
       
Download the summary (PDF) This link is available for Chrome, Firefox and Opera If you can't download the file from the above link, then right-click and choose "Download Linked File" 
Instructions for the final report This final report is to encourage you to explore deeper understanding of this course. You need to write and submit a report (200 - 400 words is the expected report length). You must write the report by yourself (this is an individual work).  You also need to assess three other learners' reports (your report will be also assessed by three students in this course).  Please refer "Guide to writing the Final Report" before you start writing the report. 
Deep Mars Science  As NASA announced, they plan a mission to collect seismic data of Mars by sending a space probe there in 2016. The name of this project is “InSight” and it is an acronym of “Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport.” image by NASASee more details : http://insight.jpl.nasa.gov/overview.cfm  What problem we can solve about the inside of the Mars if we put several seismometers there and then collect sufficient data? From the knowledge which you have learned in this course, please write a report utilizing seismic observations to describe the interior of Mars in approximately 200 - 400 words. You must mention following three items.PLEASE CHECK IF ALL THREE ITEMS (A, B AND C) PARTS ARE INCLUDED BEFORE SUBMITTING THE REPORT. [Report Format] A) Problem: What specific problem can we solve about the inside of the Mars after we obtain sufficient seismic data of Mars? Please describe your idea simply. (1 sentence) B) Method and Scientific background: How can we imagine the interior of the Mars? Please explain the scientific background of your idea. (1-2 paragraph) C) Expectation: What results can be expected from taking your approach? (1-2 paragraph) *Please choose a specific problem. You don’t have to explain all of Mars’ interior.*In both B part and C part, you must compare the related facts of Earth’s interior from what you have learned in this course.*You can use figures and/or formulas if needed.*Please make note of this course’s material as reference. e.g. “As noted in 2-3-3” in your report. (If you write reference not specifically like "in Week 2", your points will be taken off.) Three other students in this course will evaluate your report (Peer Assessment), using the rubric below. You also need to assess three other students’ reports in order to receive a grade on your report.  [Rubric] – points are listed below to use for your evaluation Structure and topic relation : Does the report include all required parts?  Good  - The idea is related to the inside of the Mars. All required parts (A, B and C) are clearly stated. Fair - The idea is related to the inside of the Mars, but all required parts (A, B and C) are not clearly stated. Poor -The description or idea is not related to the inside of the Mars. Comparison : Does the report accurately compare the Earth to the Mars? Good  - Both B and C parts are stated properly comparing the Earth to the Mars. All statements are consistent with the facts that were introduced in this course.    Fair - Only B or C part is stated properly comparing the Earth to the Mars. One or more statements are not consistent with the facts introduced in this course.Poor - Both B and C parts do not refer to the Earth.   Reference : Does the report have proper references? Good  - You can find effective references in the proper way (e.g. 2-3-3) from this course in both B and C part.      Fair - You can find at least one effective reference from this course in either B or C part in the proper way (e.g. 2-3-3).      Poor - You can not find any references in neither B nor C part. Logic : Is the report written logically? Good  - The scientific methods written in part B works clearly expresses the idea described in A. Poor - The scientific methods written in part B do not clearly reveal the idea described in A. 
This is a sample of the final report. A) Problem: Considering the chemical composition of Mars. B) Method and Scientific background: In the case of Earth, chemical composition can be directly determined by seismic observation. 1* As noted in 1-3-5, using several seismology, we can obtain the relationship between the depth and density of Earth. By doing the same thing to Mars, we can know the Mars' density structure. Finally, calculate the chemical composition of Mars using the density structure obtained by seismic observation.  C) Expectation: As mentioned in Week32*, the composition of CI chondrite and the solar atmosphere match quite well. We know that CI chondrites and other meteoroids almost all come from the asteroid belt, and Earth is between the sun and the asteroid belt, so the compositions of Earth is thought to have a similar chemical composition of meteorites from the asteroid belt. Mars is also between the sun and the asteroid belt, so the composition of Mars can be inferred to have a similar composition of Earth's composition. However, noted above is not true with respect to volatile elements, so the Mars’ bulk composition of volatile elements must differ from that of the Earth's. This session, we want to show an example of how to score this report. ①Structure and topic relation : Does the report include all required parts?  In the report above, it is properly written in the order of A, B and C. So the score should be "good".  ②Comparison : Does the report accurately compare the Earth to the Mars? Although partB and partC are both compared with the Earth, "All statements are consistent with the facts that were introduced in this course." is not satisfied.  In the report above, the underlined portion of Part B (1*) is not consistent with what is said in this course. (chemical composition cannot be determined directly by seismic observation. (See 1-3-5.)) So the score should be "fair". ③Reference : Does the report have proper references?  In the report above, the reference in partC is insufficient. "Week3"(underlined portion of Part C (2*) ) should be "3-3-4", so the score here should be "fair". ④Logic : Is the report written logically?  In the report above, the idea is to consider the chemical composition of Mars. However, in part B, it is written that seismic observation is the only method to solve the problem, and chemical composition cannot be determined directly by seismic observation. Therefore, we can't determine the chemical composition of Mars(the idea written in part A) using the method written in part B.  So the score should be "poor". 
We would appreciate you completing the survey below to provide the course team with further information. 
 
