Thus far, we have learned about the layered structure inside of the Earth (Weeks 1 and 3), plate tectonics (Week 2), and temperature and heat transport inside of the Earth (Week 4). It is important to recognize that the Earth's current form was created through mutual interaction of these elements. For example, let's consider plates. Plates which are created at mid-ocean ridges eventually sink into ocean trenches. This process creates slabs (sunken plates). After temporarily stagnating at a phase boundary of 660 kilometers, these slabs eventually fall to the lower mantle. Of course, at this time, it would be unthinkable for a “blank area” equal to the size of the fallen plates to be created on the Earth's surface. Therefore, new plates are generated and substances from deep inside the Earth are pushed to the surface. This process drives the convection of the mantle. Through mantle convection, it is possible to efficiently move heat from the Earth's core-mantle boundary to the Earth's surface. This enables heat to pass through the core-mantle boundary, making it possible for hear from the center of the Earth's core to exceed the core-mantle boundary and move to the outside. (Conversely, if heat from the core-mantle boundary did not move to the Earth's surface, heat from the core would not be able to pass through via the core-mantle boundary.) As a result, convection occurs inside of the outer core. This convection generates the Earth's magnetic field. If a magnetic field did not exist, the surface of the Earth would be exposed to solar wind including radiation. Since radiation damages DNA, this would make it impossible for life to exist on the surface of the Earth (or, a totally different form of evolution may have occurred). Furthermore, it is believed that the inner core did not exist when the Earth first originated (although differing opinions exist today). It is thought that the inner core was formed when heat from the center of the Earth was carried to the surface and then cooled. The existence of the inner core promotes convection of the outer core. In turn, this stabilizes the magnetic field. Accordingly, the existence of the inner core may be an extremely important factor in creating a planet which nurtures life. I would now like to convey the following three points. (1) All of the phenomena which we have studied up to this point, from the surface of the Earth to the inner core, are linked and have a mutual effect on each other. For example, ◯Plate tectonics is a phenomenon caused when dynamics (transmission of substances and heat) from inside of the Earth appear on the Earth's surface. This is particularly true for mantle convection. ◯The movement phenomena of heat and substances (of course, in order to understand such phenomena, the chemical composition and mineral structure are essential) at each area inside of the Earth are related to the movement phenomena in other areas of the Earth. (Mantle convection drives convection of the outer core. Outer core convection stimulates generation of the inner core.) (2) When thinking about the Earth, please view it as a system composed of multiple sub-systems. (3) Of course, all of these phenomena affect the origin of life and our daily life. The Earth currently possesses such abundant life because each aspect of the Earth is interrelated. Understanding the inside of the Earth also leads to an understanding for the surface of our planet. By using this perspective to review what we have learned, you will achieve an even deeper understanding. 