In the previous section, I introduced how the circulation of substances and energy (heat) inside of the Earth leads to a variety of phenomena on the Earth while interacting with each sub-system. In this section, I would like you to consider the driving force behind the motion of the Earth. The Earth's substances neither disappear nor increase. (Of course, when speaking in great detail, substances from outer space fall in the form of meteorites and the atmosphere dissipates into outer space...) The force which has driven the Earth for 4.6 billion years is the thermal energy which exists inside of the Earth. The energy possessed by the Earth was determined at the time that the Earth was formed. The first is thermodynamic energy possessed by the substances which shaped the Earth (I'm sure you have seen pictures in which meteorites struck the Earth's surface and caused the temperature to rise), while the second is energy generated by the decay of radioactive elements. Unlike substances, the energy possessed by the Earth is decreasing rapidly. In other words, the Earth possesses great heat and this heat is dissipating into outer space. Now, is it possible for the Earth to regain heat? The answer is “no.” Heat only flows in one direction; that is, from a high-temperature area to a low-temperature area. (This is the second law of thermodynamics. Although it is possible to create water with a temperature of about 50°C by mixing 20°C water and 100°C water, the opposite not possible; in other words, 100°C water cannot be made from 50°C water without applying energy to the 50°C water.) This process is referred to as an “irreversible process.” The Earth uses mantle convection and other phenomena to carry heat to the Earth's surface and then disperse that heat into outer space. This is an irreversible process. In other words, throughout the Earth's history (phenomena which occur upon reaching a certain temperature), there are things which only occur once. When the Earth first originated, it possessed an enormous amount of energy. At this time, the Earth was a molten mass called a “magma ocean.”  From here, crystallization occurred. This formed the mantle and crust. Time passed and the inner core was created, thus generating a stable magnetic field. In this way, the Earth is evolving through the process of losing heat. As the Earth continues to cool in the future, there will be new phenomena unlike anything before. Each of the major changes in Earth’s history only occurs once within the history of the Earth. This is the evolution of the Earth, also known as “thermal history.” 