In Week 5-1, we learned that the volume of water is important for diversity of the environment on Earth and for life. Then, here, we learned where this water came from and where it is now. Here, let us consider a little deeper about the origin of water. Where did the water on Earth come from? There are thought to be three general possibilities.  The materials of Earth contained water The most simple thinking is the theory that, when Earth formed, the materials—planetoids—already contained water. We learned in the lesson that Earth is inside the snow line, and water would vaporize. However, when the Earth formed, there is a possibility that its surroundings were filled with a large amount of gas, and light from the sun did not adequately reach it. In other words, there is a possibility that the snow line may have been much closer to the sun than at present. There is also a possibility that water molecules were absorbed by rocks, which are solids, and both formed Earth. Water was transported in from outside the snow line This is a theory which was presented in the lesson. If the snow line were in the same position at the formation of Earth as it is today, water would have had to be transported in from outside the line. The snow line of the present day lies between Mars and Jupiter, at a distance of 2.7AU from the sun. In this area there are many asteroids. It is thought that there used to be much more, but they were ejected by gravitational forces, such as of Jupiter. Some of those ejected asteroids must have collided with Earth, with water contained. Take a look at this theory described in detail at  http://planetplanet.net/2013/09/25/where-did-earths-water-come-from/ . The key to this theory is the travel of Jupiter (and Saturn). These giant planets are thought to have met resistance from gases of the primordial solar nebula (Note: the protoplanetary disk of the solar system is specially called the primordial solar nebula), and to have fallen toward the central star. Eventually, when gases along the orbit of Jupiter and Saturn dissipated, (and only if Jupiter was closer to the center than Saturn,) they are thought to have reversed direction and to have moved away from the sun! This attractive theory is called the Grand Tack model (http://planetplanet.net/2013/08/02/the-grand-tack/). When giant planets travel inside the solar system in such a manner, small asteroids and ice planetoids are ejected by gravitational forces. However, we do not know if Jupiter and Saturn did, in fact, move in such a way.  Earth captured surrounding gases When Earth was formed, did gases from the primordial solar nebula remain around it? (Gases of the primordial solar nebula dissipate over time.) If any remained, there is a possibility that Earth gained water from it. The principal component of the gases is hydrogen. Earth could have captured the hydrogen and cause it to react with the iron oxide (FeO), for example, which is plentiful in Earth's magma ocean, to gain water (recall Week4-3). The important factor is whether Earth could have grown to a large enough size (mass) while the gases still remained around Earth. However, we still do not have a clear answer to this question. As we have discussed above, to unravel the origin of water, how Earth and the whole of the solar system came to be must be unraveled. When Earth was formed, were there gases remaining in the primordial solar nebula? Were Jupiter and Saturn really traveling to and fro inside the solar system? Earth science is no longer scholarship of Earth alone. It is being reevaluated from a larger standpoint, as planetary science. ReferencesGenda, H. and Ikoma, T.  2008. Origin of the Earth's ocean --- Current situation any primordial evolution of D/H ratio ---.  Journal of the Japanese Society for Planetary Sciences Vol. 17, No. 4, 238-243.  