In this further study topic, I want to introduce the cutting-edge topic of the planetary formation theory. Many scientists are tackling the research in order to understand how the Earth was formed. There are still so many open questions. Following discussion is from the webpage of Prof. Sean Raymond, who is an astronomer at the Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Bordeaux in Bordeaux, France. He researches water delivery to the Earth. Thanks to him, we can provide an opportunity to you to learn one of the up-to-date science. Please enjoy!   Terrestrial Planet Formation and Water Delivery in the Solar System (From  Prof. Raymond's webpage)Despite their much smaller masses, the terrestrial planets form slower than gas giant planets. We know this for sure for the Earth from a combination of isotopic measurements -- which show the last big impact on Earth happened about 30-100 million years after it started -- and astronomical observations that have shown that the typical lifetime of a gaseous protoplanetary disk is only a few million years. So, the last phase of terrestrial planet formation occurs in the presence of the giant planets. The last phase in the growth of terrestrial planets involves the collisional accretion of a population of planetary embryos and planetesimals. In the simulations from the following movies we attempted to reproduce the inner Solar System. These attempts were, in almost all cases, unsuccessful. In particular, we were thwarted by the so-called Mars problem (Wetherill 1991): planets in Mars' vicinity were systematically too massive by a large factor. Despite this, these simulations did help to uncover many of the details of the accretion process, to demonstrate the effect of several parameters, and to show that water-rich asteroids could indeed have delivered water to the growing Earth. This movie (You can see it from here. Please click the first figure.) is a simulation from Raymond, Quinn & Lunine (2006). The simulation starts from 1885 roughly Moon-sized planetary embryos from 0.5-5 AU, and includes a fully-formed Jupiter at 5.5 AU. Note that Red = dry and blue = wet (scale is on the color bar). When the color of an object changes, it implies mixing between different radial zones. This is the basis for the asteroidal model for the origin of Earth's water. Further studyThe conclusion of the paper is that "standard" accretion models don't appear to be able to reproduce the Solar System's terrestrial planets. However, by considering the effect of Jupiter and Saturn's early orbital evolution we came up with an alternative model that can solve the Mars problem and reproduce the inner Solar System. That model is called the Grand Tack.    ReferenceWebpage by Prof. Sean Raymond  http://www.obs.u-bordeaux1.fr/e3arths/raymond/movies_waterdelivery.html 