In Week 5-2, we learned about the formation of the Earth. Today, we will go back to material slightly before the previous class and briefly examine how our solar system and other star systems were formed. 1) Formation of Protoplanetary Disks Almost all planets orbit around stars. Moreover, all planets circle around stars in the same direction. These characteristics are well explained by the theory that planets did not come to stars from a different location, but rather were formed from disk-like objects which orbit around stars. Scientists refer to these disks as "protoplanetary disks." It is believed that protoplanetary disks were the inevitable product of the formation of central stars. Both central stars and protoplanetary disks were formed from a molecular cloud cores which are large gaseous masses with a radius up to 1,000 AU. These large gaseous masses do not simply drift quietly through space; rather, there is a certain amount of flow within the gas cloud. Eventually, the gas cloud will begin to contract due to gravity, and the flow will cause rotation to begin as well. It is more efficient to contract (the phenomenon can also be referred to as "falling") while rotating. In the case of a rotating object, centrifugal force acts in a vertical direction at the axis of rotation. The force prevents the falling of gas from that direction, and the congested gas creates a disk. This is the most intuitive explanation for the formation of protoplanetary disks. In reality, it is necessary to consider a variety of more difficult phenomenon (conveyance of angular momentum, the effect of magnetic fields, radiation of the central star, etc.). Incidentally, a jet erupts from the central star in the direction of the axis of rotation which is not shielded by the disk. 2) Formation of Planets After the protoplanetary disk is formed and the jet eruption finally subsides, a planet is finally formed. The disk is mainly composed of gases such as hydrogen. However, prior to such gases, a minute amount of solid matter (rock and frozen water) dust sinks to the "midplane" (the plane which passes the equator of the central star) of the disk. While sinking, the dust collides and unites with other dust (there is also a theory which states that planets are formed through direct gravitational contraction of gas!). This unification is repeated many times and dust of µm size gradually grows larger, eventually reaching a size exceeding one kilometer (how many times does the dust increase in size??). The result is the planetoid planetesimal that was previously introduced in class. As learned in class, at the time that planetesimals are formed, water undergoes a phase change depending on the distance from the central star. When close to the central star, water changes to gas. When far from the central star, water changes to a solid (ice). In terms of our solar system, the materials used for planetesimals are rock only for planets from Mercury to Mars, while planets from Jupiter and further outwards consisting of the two substances of rock and ice. As a result, the planetesimals (or the larger protoplanets) from Jupiter and further outwards grow larger than planets closer to the Sun. Eventually, the outer planetesimals reach a size where the gravitational capture of gas is possible. The gravity of the captured gas causes the planetesimal to consume an ever larger amount of gas. The planetesimal then grows rapidly, gathering a large amount of gas around the solid core. This is the process by which Jupiter and Saturn were formed. Planets from Mars and inwards captured only a very small amount of gas, being formed almost exclusively from rock. Furthermore, gas slowly clears as the planet grows in size. The dissipation of gas is caused when radiation from the central star slowly blows gas outside of the solar system, and when the gas itself disperses outside. It is said that the process of dissipation takes about one million years. However, in the case of Uranus and Neptune, planets which are even farther from the Sun than Saturn, the small amount of material available results in the gas dispersing before a sufficient amount of gas can be captured. As a result, these two planets now consist mainly of ice and rock. 3) Diversity of Planets  Until now, we have learned about the process by which our solar system was formed. But, how were exoplanets formed? Assuming that protoplanetary disks are a universal phenomenon, it would seem that exoplanets should be identical to planets in our solar system. However, solar systems are actually quite diverse. At what stage was this diversity born? The first cause of diversity are differences in initial conditions; specifically, in molecular clouds. There are many different sizes of molecular clouds and a variety of elemental compositions (although hydrogen remains the main component, compositions with heavy elements are different). The strength of the nearby magnetic field also varies according to the molecular cloud. It is believed that these differences in initial conditions create differences in protoplanetary disks, as well as changes in the process of planet formation. The second cause of planetary diversity is the migration of planets. During the process of growth, planets interact with gas and other planets (planetesimals and protoplanets). Firstly, gas orbits the central star at a slower speed than solids. As a result, solids are exposed to gas resistance and fall to the central star. When planets fall in this way, Hot Jupiters are formed. It is believed that planets in our solar system also moved closer to and farther away from the Sun while growing in size. On the other hand, solids also interact gravitationally. This makes it impossible for planets to maintain a perfect circular orbit, causing planets to fly far away or to enter an elliptical orbit. In actuality, planets with elliptical orbits have been discovered and are referred to as "eccentric planets." Now, if the parameters of molecular clouds are known, is it possible to replicate the growth and movement of planets and to predict exoplanets which will be formed in the future? Most likely, such predictions are not possible. A major factor influencing planetary growth and movement is turbulence of gas in the disk. This is a random or chaotic phenomenon which is extremely difficult to predict. In other words, although modern science has clarified that protoplanetary disks are formed from molecular cloud cores, there is still little understanding regarding the subsequent growth of planets and formation of solar systems. ReferencesWatanabe, J. (Section 6.1) and Kitamura, Y. (Section 6.2) In: Watanabe, J., Ida, S., Sasaki, S. 2008. Solar system and planets (Astronomy in the present day, Series 9). Nippon Hyoron Sha Co., Ltd.  