What are the conditions under which convection occurs? The Earth's temperature increases the deeper that we travel underground. At high-temperature conditions which exist inside of the Earth, when the viscosity of substances creating a certain layer of the Earth is below a specific value, thermal convection occurs at that layer. Now, let's define the Rayleigh number.  (ρ: density at the standard state, g: gravitational acceleration, α: coefficient of thermal expansion, ΔT: temperature difference, L: thickness of fluid layer, η: viscosity, κ: thermal diffusivity) When the Rayleigh number is below a certain limit (Ra)c(critical Rayleigh number), heat is mainly transmitted by conduction. When the Rayleigh number is above a certain limit, heat is mainly transmitted by convection.  Rayleigh number inside of the Earth We learned that thermal convection occurs inside of the Earth at areas deeper than plates. Here, let's confirm this phenomenon by calculating an estimate for the Rayleigh number of the Earth's mantle. Although the critical Rayleigh number differs according to conditions, it is a value of approximately 103. We will use other well-known values for the other variables in the formula given above: density at the standard state ρ0(approx. 3,000 kg/m3), thermal diffusivity k (approx. 3×10-6m2/s), coefficient of thermal expansion α (approx. 1×10-5 /K), and gravitational acceleration g (approx. 10 m/s2). We will also use typical values for the temperature difference ΔT (1,000 K) and the viscosity η (1021 Pa•s; the average mantle viscosity). When assuming that the thickness of the fluid layer L is 100 km, Ra≒103. When considering the critical Rayleigh number to be approximately 103, this thickness is the minimum required condition for convection to occur. When substituting the actual mantle thickness of approximately 3,000 kilometers, Ra≒106and sufficiently violent convection will occur. Accordingly, this illustrates that convection is certainly occurring in the Earth's mantle. 