SPring-8 is a large synchrotron radiation facility which delivers the most powerful synchrotron radiation currently available. Consisting of narrow, powerful beams of electromagnetic radiation, synchrotron radiation is produced when electron beams, accelerated to nearly the speed of light, are forced to travel in a curved path by a magnetic field. The research conducted at SPring-8, located in Harima Science Park City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan, includes nanotechnology, biotechnology and industrial applications. The name "SPring-8" is derived from "Super Photon ring-8 GeV" (8 GeV, or 8 giga electron volts, being the power output of the ring). SPring-8 was opened in 1997 to industrial, academic and government users, domestic and international. Any user whose application is accepted may use the facility. (History of SPring-8 is here.) SPring-8 is managed by RIKEN, with the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI) in charge of operation, maintenance and promotion of use.  Synchrotron radiation (SR) is an electro-magnetic wave emitted from an electron traveling at almost the speed of light, toward its running-direction when its path is bent by a magnetic field. Synchrotron radiation is characterized by useful features; brightness, high directionality and variable polarization. SPring-8, the world's largest third-generation synchrotron radiation facility (in 2016), provides the most powerful synchrotron radiation currently available. SPring-8's ultra-brilliant synchrotron radiation gives researchers exciting opportunities for advanced research in materials science, spectroscopic analysis, earth science, life science, environmental science, industrial applications and so forth. Synchrotron radiation is very useful for various fields in both basic and applied research.  Synchrotron radiation available at SPring-8 is applied to the following advanced research fields: 
Life Science: Atomic structure analysis of protein macromolecules and elucidation of biological functions; Mechanism of time-dependent biological reactions; Dynamics of muscle fibers
 
Materials Science: Precise electron distribution in novel inorganic crystals; Structural phase transition at high pressure / high or low temperature; Atomic and electronic structure of advanced materials of high Tc superconductors, highly correlated electron systems and magnetic substances; Local atomic structure of amorphous solids, liquids and melts
 
Chemical Science: Dynamic behaviors of catalytic reactions; X-ray photochemical process at surface; Atomic and molecular spectroscopy; Analysis of ultra-trace elements and their chemical states; Archeological studies
 
Earth and Planetary Science: In situ X-ray observation of phase transformation of earth materials at high pressure and high temperature; Mechanism of earthquakes; Structure of meteorites and interplanetary dusts
 
Environmental Science: Analysis of toxic heavy atoms contained in bio-materials; Development of novel catalysts for purifying pollutants in exhaust gases; Development of high quality batteries and hydrogen storage alloys
 
Industrial Application: Characterization of microelectronic devices and nanometer-scale quantum devices; Analysis of chemical composition and chemical state of trace elements; X-ray imaging of materials; Residual stress analysis of industrial products; Pharmaceutical drug design
 
Medical Application: Application of high spatial resolution imaging techniques to medical diagnosis of cancers and capillaries
 To make these so many kind of experiments available, Spring-8 has 56 beam lines. In this study tour, we will drop in BL10XU, High Pressure Research Beam-line. Are you ready for the tour?  See you there! 