Welcome to "Introduction to Deep Earth Science (DES) "  “Introduction to Deep Earth Science” is a re-release of a MOOC entitled, “Introduction to Deep Earth Science Part 1” run in Oct. 2015.  In this new release, “Plate Tectonics” has been added to the course content plus revised video lectures, additional reading materials and quizzes.We are going on a journey to solve the mysteries deep within the earth.Below are the three learning objectives or goals of this course. Acquire the fundamental knowledge necessary to understand the Earth's interior. Using deep earth science as a springboard, gain an overview of cutting edge science, especially the interdisciplinary study of the origins of earth and life.  Use deep earth science to experience the logical framework and thought process of a scientist. This course is comprised of four different weekly segments with three different content styles to help you reach learn the material.  Week 1. Introduction to the solid Earth Week 2. Plate Tectonics  Week 3. Chemical composition of our planet Week 4. Temperature of the Earth's interior Week 5. Earth’s water 1. Video Lecture, Summary, Quiz, Report, Appendix part The most fundamental, essential knowledge for understanding earth and planetary sciences is taught in this part. Please look over all of this part in order, from the beginning of the course. Beginners in this field will need to invest about 90 minutes to 2 hours each week to understand this part. The content has been arranged as concisely as possible. I recommend taking notes on difficult sections and sections that are important for overall understanding. For some diagrams and logical arguments, I particularly recommend that you stop the video and summarize them on your own to understand them. You should be able to handle the tests and reports if you watch the lecture videos, but to deepen your understanding you can use other resources such as the appendix, supplement, coffee brakes, and the field trip. Also, as the course progresses you will find it convenient to repeatedly refer back to the appendix for the unit conversion table and a summary of important ideas. Look over it as necessary. 2. Interactive part This part lets course participants actively participate in the class. For example, you can post on the discussion board. Another element of the Interactive part (though not specified in the courseware) is to write posts on the forum about material you did not understand in the lecture. The requirement for a good MOOC is that the class actively participates in the course. This includes asking questions, helping friends having difficulties, teaching each other difficult concepts on the course discussion boards, etc. I encourage you to actively participate in this MOOC’s activities! 3. Supplement, Further Study, Coffee breaks and Virtual Field trip In this part, resources are gathered for gaining a deeper, broader understanding of the course’s content. Take a look at this part as interest and time allows. On the other hand, it is not related to your grade for this course. When you are short on time, it is fine to skip it, but it is worth checking out for fun. Every week about one to two hours of materials are presented. In coffee break sessions, student teaching assistants interview the instructor, Prof. Kei Hirose. Your performance in this class will be assessed as follows.  Weekly Quizzes 80%, Final report 20%*Passing mark 60%   Finally, I want to request something again from all of you. I want you to actively participate in the course. I want you to even expect to make friends through this course. People from many countries across the globe are participating in this course. Location, age, and current job might vary greatly, but you are still a (huge) class. Speak up, help friends, and ask questions just as you would in a normal class. Topics aside from the course content are also welcome. This is your greatest contribution to the course. The TA’s and instructor are looking forward to meeting you. Let us all join together to make this a fruitful course. On that note, welcome to DES It may be difficult to understand various scientific concepts all at once. This course is devised in such a way that you start by studying the simple content first, then move on to deeper content in the following week. At that point, if you have not been given sufficient information, do not fret. After everyone has reached the next stage, the concepts appear again in more depth and detail. All of the learning in this class proceeds as if climbing a spiral staircase.  This course was prepared first in Japanese, and then translated into Global English. Please pardon the occasional misspelled word or spacing issue.  GeoS101x team 