Extrasolar planet, Exoplanet Extrasolar planets are planets that orbit stars other than the sun. Extrasolar planet is abbreviated as exoplanet. An exoplanet does not shine on its own, similar to our earth, and thus it is difficult to observe directly. As such, a method which observes in some way influences as a result of the existence of the planet around its star is adopted. In addition, before the first exoplanet was discovered, people were looking for star systems similar to the solar system and thus it took some time before the first one was discovered. In 1995, the existence of a star called 51 Pegasi with a Jupitar-class mass was confirmed. It was the first discovered exoplanet that orbits a main sequence star. As a result, since 1990, exoplanets were being discovered one after successively and as of May 2016, there are approximately 3,400 exoplanets that have been discovered.  Types of exoplanets There are many types of exoplanets, some quite different from planets in our solar system. Here, I will introduce a few representative types of exoplanets. Hot Jupiter: Giant gas planets with Jupiter-class sizes that orbit very closely to their stars at high speeds and in short cycles. Planets that follow similar orbits with similar sizes as Neptune are called Hot Neptunes. Eccentric planets: Exoplanets with large orbital eccentricities that follow elliptical orbit paths far from a true circle. The ones that are easy to discover are Hot Jupitars and Eccentric planets.  Super Earth: Planets that have masses that are multiple times of that of Earth. With improvements in observation techniques and accuracy, planets of lower masses are gradually being discovered. Pulsar planet: Planets that are orbiting around not a common stars but rapidly rotating neutron stars, in other words planets that orbit the pulsars. The first pulsar planet was discovered in 1992. Achievements of the Kepler The Kepler space telescope used by NASA to discover Earth-like extrasolar planets has contributed a lot to the discovery of exoplanets. The Kepler telescope launched by NASA in 2009, continually observed the light intensity of 100,000 stars over a period of three-and one-half years. As a result, the Kepler telescope detected more than 4,000 exoplanet candidates. Currently, more than 1,000 of these candidates have been confirmed as exoplanets! In addition to enabling the statistical research of exoplanets, this revolutionary telescope has successively discovered exoplanets which resemble the Earth and has contributed to dramatic advances in research in the field. For more details, please refer to http://kepler.nasa.gov/ 