Deep Mars Science  As NASA announced, they plan a mission to collect seismic data of Mars by sending a space probe there in 2016. The name of this project is “InSight” and it is an acronym of “Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport.” image by NASASee more details : http://insight.jpl.nasa.gov/overview.cfm  What problem we can solve about the inside of the Mars if we put several seismometers there and then collect sufficient data? From the knowledge which you have learned in this course, please write a report utilizing seismic observations to describe the interior of Mars in approximately 200 - 400 words. You must mention following three items.PLEASE CHECK IF ALL THREE ITEMS (A, B AND C) PARTS ARE INCLUDED BEFORE SUBMITTING THE REPORT. [Report Format] A) Problem: What specific problem can we solve about the inside of the Mars after we obtain sufficient seismic data of Mars? Please describe your idea simply. (1 sentence) B) Method and Scientific background: How can we imagine the interior of the Mars? Please explain the scientific background of your idea. (1-2 paragraph) C) Expectation: What results can be expected from taking your approach? (1-2 paragraph) *Please choose a specific problem. You don’t have to explain all of Mars’ interior.*In both B part and C part, you must compare the related facts of Earth’s interior from what you have learned in this course.*You can use figures and/or formulas if needed.*Please make note of this course’s material as reference. e.g. “As noted in 2-3-3” in your report. (If you write reference not specifically like "in Week 2", your points will be taken off.) Three other students in this course will evaluate your report (Peer Assessment), using the rubric below. You also need to assess three other students’ reports in order to receive a grade on your report.  [Rubric] – points are listed below to use for your evaluation Structure and topic relation : Does the report include all required parts?  Good  - The idea is related to the inside of the Mars. All required parts (A, B and C) are clearly stated. Fair - The idea is related to the inside of the Mars, but all required parts (A, B and C) are not clearly stated. Poor -The description or idea is not related to the inside of the Mars. Comparison : Does the report accurately compare the Earth to the Mars? Good  - Both B and C parts are stated properly comparing the Earth to the Mars. All statements are consistent with the facts that were introduced in this course.    Fair - Only B or C part is stated properly comparing the Earth to the Mars. One or more statements are not consistent with the facts introduced in this course.Poor - Both B and C parts do not refer to the Earth.   Reference : Does the report have proper references? Good  - You can find effective references in the proper way (e.g. 2-3-3) from this course in both B and C part.      Fair - You can find at least one effective reference from this course in either B or C part in the proper way (e.g. 2-3-3).      Poor - You can not find any references in neither B nor C part. Logic : Is the report written logically? Good  - The scientific methods written in part B works clearly expresses the idea described in A. Poor - The scientific methods written in part B do not clearly reveal the idea described in A. 