This is a sample of the final report. A) Problem: Considering the chemical composition of Mars. B) Method and Scientific background: In the case of Earth, chemical composition can be directly determined by seismic observation. 1* As noted in 1-3-5, using several seismology, we can obtain the relationship between the depth and density of Earth. By doing the same thing to Mars, we can know the Mars' density structure. Finally, calculate the chemical composition of Mars using the density structure obtained by seismic observation.  C) Expectation: As mentioned in Week32*, the composition of CI chondrite and the solar atmosphere match quite well. We know that CI chondrites and other meteoroids almost all come from the asteroid belt, and Earth is between the sun and the asteroid belt, so the compositions of Earth is thought to have a similar chemical composition of meteorites from the asteroid belt. Mars is also between the sun and the asteroid belt, so the composition of Mars can be inferred to have a similar composition of Earth's composition. However, noted above is not true with respect to volatile elements, so the Mars’ bulk composition of volatile elements must differ from that of the Earth's. This session, we want to show an example of how to score this report. ①Structure and topic relation : Does the report include all required parts?  In the report above, it is properly written in the order of A, B and C. So the score should be "good".  ②Comparison : Does the report accurately compare the Earth to the Mars? Although partB and partC are both compared with the Earth, "All statements are consistent with the facts that were introduced in this course." is not satisfied.  In the report above, the underlined portion of Part B (1*) is not consistent with what is said in this course. (chemical composition cannot be determined directly by seismic observation. (See 1-3-5.)) So the score should be "fair". ③Reference : Does the report have proper references?  In the report above, the reference in partC is insufficient. "Week3"(underlined portion of Part C (2*) ) should be "3-3-4", so the score here should be "fair". ④Logic : Is the report written logically?  In the report above, the idea is to consider the chemical composition of Mars. However, in part B, it is written that seismic observation is the only method to solve the problem, and chemical composition cannot be determined directly by seismic observation. Therefore, we can't determine the chemical composition of Mars(the idea written in part A) using the method written in part B.  So the score should be "poor". 