Have you ever used a compass? When using a compass, you always know what direction is north. Accordingly, you may believe that north is always in the same direction. However, in actuality, the Earth's true north is not always in the same place. Geomagnetic field The Earth is a giant magnet. Using a compass enables you to know the direction of the Earth's magnetic field. Since the Earth is round, it is necessary to face the ground in order to accurately assess the Earth's magnetic field. At this time, the angle of the horizontal direction in contrast to the horizontal plane is called “declination,” while the angle of the vertical direction in contrast to the horizontal plane is called “inclination.”  Changing geomagnetic field Changes in the direction of the Earth's magnetic field were first indicated by Henry Gellibrand in 1635. Gellibrand reported that declination in London had changed by 7° over a 50-year period. These changes in the Earth's magnetic field are called “geomagnetic secular variation.” The declination direction and intensity of the magnetic field are known to change throughout the world, not just in England. Currently, scientists are observing geomagnetic secular variation by measuring the Earth's magnetic field at locations throughout the world. Geomagnetic reversals Generally speaking, the direction of the Earth's magnetic field at a certain point in time is saved in the Earth's igneous rock when the rock hardens. In the 1920s, Motonori Matsuyama reported the existence of rocks which had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's current magnetic field. However, this surprising discovery received little attention at that time. In the 1950s, scientists discovered rocks which became magnetized in the opposite direction of the magnetic field in their laboratory environment. It was thought that this phenomenon could explain the existence of rocks which had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's magnetic field. However, upon further examination, scientists learned that this phenomenon only occurred under limited conditions. As a result, it was not possible to explain why rocks magnetized in the opposite direction exist in various locations throughout the world. In the 1950s, research groups from across the world examined rocks in locations throughout the earth. It was discovered that rocks magnetized in the opposite direction exist throughout the world. Furthermore, it was clarified that these oppositely-magnetized rocks were from the end of the third period and the beginning of the fourth period on the geological time scale (GTS). These rocks were not found at one specific location; rather, rocks which are from the same time period and had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's current magnetic field were found throughout the world. This led scientists to believe that the Earth's magnetic field was reversed at some point in time. In the 1960s, radiometric dating was established, making it possible to determine with a certain degree of accuracy when rocks had been formed. Scientists used radiometric dating to analyze rocks which had been magnetized in the opposite direction of the Earth's current magnetic field. It was discovered that the direction of the Earth's magnetic field had reversed many times. Currently, the reason for reversal of the geomagnetic field is not known. Nevertheless, based on a variety of proofs, many scientists believe with certainty that the direction of the Earth's magnetic field has been reversed. 