New plates are created at mid-ocean ridges. But how are ridges themselves created? As an example, let's look at the formation of the Atlantic Ridge, which is said to have been formed approximately XX thousand year ago. However, to be honest, the formation of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge is not yet fully understood. Therefore, I will explain two prevalent theories. Theory 1: A continent was torn apart by an old oceanic plate? Oceanic plates which are formed at a mid-ocean ridge in the Pacific Ocean move across the Pacific Ocean over a vast period of years. During this process, the oceanic plates are sufficiently cooled and become heavy. Eventually, the oceanic plate sinks beneath the continental plate at an ocean trench. This old, heavy oceanic plate (called a “slab”) which sinks down serves as a force which moves newly-created ocean plates by pulling them towards the ocean trench. Since this force is extremely strong, it does more than simply pull ocean plates on the Pacific Ocean side; it also pulls on the Atlantic Ocean side. It is said that this force tore apart a continent which existed on the Pacific Ocean side and created the Atlantic Ridge. Theory 2: Multiple hot spots linked together? The black circles in the figure show the locations of hot spots. Since the origin of hot spots is located deep within the Earth, it is believed that the occurrence of hot spots is unrelated to the movement of plates on the Earth's surface. However, when looking at the figure, hot spots can be seen along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge which exists on the Earth's surface. Accordingly, the following theory was created by connecting hot spots with the origin of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. First, prior to the formation of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a large number of independent hot spots had occurred in the area. Each one of these hot spots emitted magma and created cracks in the plate. It is theorized that each one of these small cracks linked together into a large crack which ultimately formed the Atlantic Ridge. FURTHER STUDY: Large Low Shear Velocity Province (LLSVP) When considering the second theory discussed above, a certain question arises. If hot spots occur in random locations, then why did the hot spots link together in a line? One answer to this question is a concept known as “Large Low Shear Velocity Province,” or LLSVP. At the lowest portion of the mantle, there is a province (LLSVP) where only S-waves are abnormally slow when compared with the surrounding mantle. The figure shows the relative speed distribution of S-waves at the lowest portion of the mantle. The red province shows where the S-wave speed is relatively slow. When looking at the figure, it can be seen that LLSVPs exist directly underneath the African continent and the Pacific Ocean. Here, it must be noted that hot spots appear to be concentrated around the border of these LLSVPs. In other words, there is the possibility that hot spots around the Mid-Atlantic Ridge are plumes which originate (are rooted) in the area around the LLSVPs. If this is true, it explains why these hot spots occur in a line.  