Mid-ocean ridges account for approximately 75% of all magma generated from volcanic activity on the Earth. Furthermore, approximately 20% of the Earth's total volcanic activity occurs in subduction zones, a topic which will be studied later (2-4-1). Now, where does the remaining 5% of volcanic activity occur?  The mantle possesses fluidity and undergoes convection (a detailed study of this topic is conducted in Week 4). A portion of the mantle becomes magma and rises to the Earth's surface. This rising flow is called a “hot plume.” It must be noted that the mantle and the plumes consisting of upward mantle flow are both solids. Hot spots refer to locations where these hot plumes penetrate through plates and rise to the Earth's surface. I'm sure that all of you are familiar with the Hawaiian Islands, but did you know that they are one of the Earth's most famous hot spots?  A major feature of hot spots is that the source of magma exists at a location which is much deeper than the plates. This magma generation source is sometimes located at the asthenosphere. In some cases, the generation source even goes down far enough to reach deep recesses of the lower mantle. At hot spots, magma rises to the Earth's surface and volcanoes are formed. As in the case of Hawaii, when magma rises to locations in a sea, volcanic islands are eventually formed. Plates move, so the formed volcanic islands move on top of the plates. However, since the source of hot spots is located deeper than plates, the hot spots do not move. This means that although the volcanic islands on top of the plates move together with the plates, the source of magma does not move. This results in a process in which the original volcanic island moves and a new volcano is then formed.   The figure shows the movement of plates and the movement of the Hawaiian Islands which were formed by hot spots. It is clear that a series of new volcanic islands is created according to the movement of plates. It is also clear that age of the Hawaiian Islands is older the farther northwest the island is located.  It is believed that a new mid-ocean ridge is formed when several hot spots occur inside of a plate. When a hot spot exists, a radial crack appears in the plate. When several hot spots exist, the cracks join together and a new mid-ocean ridge is formed. In actuality, some theories state that the Mid-Atlantic Ridge was formed in this way. A detailed discussion of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge will be conducted in the next section, 2-3-3. 