According to the continental drift theory which was proposed by Alfred Wegener at the beginning of the 20th century, the continents which exist today were created by the split of a single supercontinent. This supercontinent is called “Pangea.” It is said that Wegener's continental drift theory was inspired by the resemblance between the coastlines on the western coast of the African continent and the eastern coast of the South American continent. Additionally, in 1915, Wegener published a book which showed the validity of the continental drift theory based on proof derived from the fields of geodesy, geophysics, geology, paleontology, biology and paleoclimatology. In this section, I will introduce proof from the fields of paleontology and biology.  Fossils of creatures such as the Mesosaurus (a reptile) and the Glossopteris (a gymnosperm) have been excavated on both the African continent and the South American continent. Furthermore, there is a match between certain species of snails, worms, mussels, basses, and crayfish on the Eurasian continent and the eastern part of the North American continent. In addition to these species, Wagener demonstrated paleontological and biological similarities between Australia and South America, as well as between India and Africa. In order for a certain species to thrive, a specific environment is required. It is believed that the reason why the same fossil species are found in different regions is because those regions originally had the same environment; in other words, they were originally part of the same continent.  Currently, we know from detailed geological proof that Pangaea was formed approximately 300 million years ago and started to break apart approximately 200 million years ago. At first, Pangaea separated into its northern half, which is known as Laurasia (currently the Eurasian and North American continents), and its southern half, which is known as Gondwana (currently the African, South American, Antarctic, and Australian continents, as well as the Indian subcontinent). These portions then underwent further separation to eventually form the continental positions which exist today.  