  Four plates of various sizes meet in the area near Japan. Indeed, it can be said that the entire Japanese archipelago rests above a plate boundary. For this reason, Japan is frequently struck by earthquakes and volcanic activity which are natural disasters unique to plate boundaries. Earthquakes in Japan   Japan is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world. Every year, there are 1,000 to 2,000 earthquakes which are strong enough to be felt by the human body. Furthermore, earthquakes inflicting major damage happen every few years. Disasters such as the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake in 1995, the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, and the Kumamoto Earthquakes in 2016 are still fresh in our memory.   The damage wrought by earthquakes is not limited to destruction of structures due to violent shaking. As in the case of the Great Kanto Earthquake and the Great East Japan Earthquake, quakes can also cause secondary disasters such as fires and tsunamis, which inflict further damage.   The damage which has been inflicted on Japan by numerous earthquakes has caused our nation to focus on disaster prevention and mitigation. For example, skyscrapers are equipped with seismic isolators which suppress shaking. These devices absorb and weaken seismic tremors. Furthermore, supplies such as emergency food and blankets are kept in many public facilities. These facilities are always prepared to accept emergency evacuees. Another measure born from the concept of disaster prevention and mitigation is the Earthquake Early Warning (EEW), which transmits a warning when major earthquakes are detected. When a major earthquake occurs, the system detects the arrival of the first P-waves which cause relatively small tremors. A warning is then issued before the major tremors caused by S-waves. In response to this warning, actions are taken such as stopping production lines at factories and stopping the bullet train.  Volcanoes in Japan   Japan is known for having a great number of volcanoes. In fact, Japan has 110 active volcanoes, which accounts for 7% of all volcanoes in the world.   Volcanoes create beautiful scenery such as Mount Fuji and Mount Aso. However, they are also responsible for disasters similar to earthquakes. In recent times, the 1991 eruption of Mount Unzen and the 2015 eruption of Mount Ontake were volcanic disasters which claimed a large number of human lives. Even when volcanic disasters are not directly responsible for human death, phenomenon such as the adverse effect of volcanic ash on agricultural crops and a reduction in tourism around the volcano lead to economic damages. For example, Mount Hakone attracts a large number of tourists from both Japan and overseas. However, in 2015, an increase in volcanic activity at Mount Hakone caused the number of visitors to decrease to nearly 80% when compared to the previous year.   Currently, in order to reduce human casualties, the activity of 50 active volcanoes is monitored constantly in Japan and eruptions are predicted. Compared to seismic activity, volcanic activity is relatively easy to predict. In many cases of actual eruptions, it was possible to reduce damages thanks to predictions. Furthermore, as part of disaster activities, Japan is also creating hazard maps to show regions which would be subject to damage in the event of an eruption. During their daily lives, Japanese people enjoy hot springs and other benefits of volcanoes. For this very reason, we also understand the danger posed by volcanic activity.   Looking back, the Japanese archipelago itself was created as the result of plate motion. In other words, seismic and volcanic disasters which are caused by plate motion are an inseparable part of life in Japan. 