  Convergent boundaries are classified into two types based on differences in the specific gravity of plates which are colliding. ○Continental collision type: Atlantic Ocean type   When the specific gravity of the two plates which are colliding is not significantly different, neither of the plates is able to sink when they collide. As a result, the collision force is continuously exerted as a compressive force. A classic example of this type is collision between the Indian/Australian plates and the Eurasian plate at the area around the Himalaya Mountains and Pamir Mountains. Currently, the Himalaya Mountains are the only location on Earth where active and large-scale continental collision is occurring. ○Subduction type: Pacific Ocean type   When the specific gravity of the two plates which are colliding is significantly different, the plates sink with the heavy plate underneath the lightweight plate. Since cold oceanic plates are heavier than continental plates, the oceanic plates sink beneath the continental plates.  Further Study: Accretionary wedge   A large amount of sediment has accumulated on oceanic plates which have undergone a long journey at the bottom of the sea ever since their creation at mid-ocean ridges. When oceanic plates sink under continental plates at ocean trenches, the accumulated seafloor sediment is sometimes scraped off by the continental plate. As a result, the seafloor sediment and mid-ocean ridge basalt (studied in detail in Week 3) carried by the oceanic plate accumulates along the edge of the continental plate. This process is called “accretion” and creates what is known as an “accretionary wedge.” Many areas of the Japanese archipelago were formed in this way.  Further study:Now, what might be happening at the subduction zones (convergent boundaries)? Oceanic plates subduct under continental plates there. Oceanic plates contain large amounts of water over long periods until they subduction. This water lowers rocks’ melting points, creating low temperature magma. At this point magma forms at certain depths in the Earth’s interior. This is because, even when water is present, high temperatures (~1100K) are still needed for melting. As a result of this, magma forms all at once in places a certain distance away from ocean ridges, or in other words, at depths where temperature is high enough. This is the reason why series of volcanoes line subduction zones (these are called volcanic fronts). The illustration below is a distribution diagram of volcanic fronts in Japan. Please confirm that most of the volcanoes are neatly aligned in a straight line (and that they are also parallel to ocean trenches). The main rocks on land, granite, are formed from magma in these subduction zones.Information about granite came from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Granite  