Week 4 has almost ended and we now have one week left. In addition to your interest in earth science, you now possess a certain level of knowledge in the subject. In this section, I would like to give a brief introduction of advanced research which is being conducted by our research group. The Hirose Laboratory is equipped with a diamond anvil cell, which is a device that generates high pressure. By using this cell, we conduct ultra high-pressure experiments aimed at understanding the interior of the Earth and other planets. Ultimately, our research aims to clarify the origins and evolution of these planets. Our group faces a never-ending series of difficulties when continually trying to conduct world-leading research. On the other hand, by implementing measures which the world has never seen before, we have been able to make numerous discoveries with students and other researchers. I would now like to introduce a few examples of those discoveries 2004: Reproduction of high-temperature, high-pressure conditions at the bottom of the mantle and discovery of post-perovskite  2004 doesn't seem that long ago. However, at that time, it was still difficult to reproduce the bottom of the mantle and conduct observations in situ. By repeatedly implementing new measures in our experiments, our research group succeeded in reproducing the environment at the bottom of the mantle. By doing so, we found a mineral unlike anything ever seen before. The name of this mineral is post-perovskite [Murakami et al. 2004 Nature]. Today, this is being called the most “significant discovery in the history of earth science in 30 years.”   2010: Reproduction of the center of the Earth Afterwards, our research group continued to implement new equipment as we sought to understand even deeper recesses of the Earth. In April 2010, we finally succeeded in achieving a pressure and temperature condition beyond 3.64 million atmospheric pressures and 5,000 K. In other words, we recreated the conditions at the center of the Earth for the first time in the history of the world. As a result of this research, we ascertained that the material at the center of the Earth has a hexagonal, close-packed structure where the iron atoms bond at high density [Tateno et al. 2010 Science]. Furthermore, the Hirose Laboratory has conducted a wide variety of research and technological development, including achievements such as realizing electrical conductivity measurement in high-temperature, high-pressure environments [Ohta et al. 2008 Science, etc.] and determining the melting temperature at the lowest portion of the mantle [Nomura et al. 2014 Nature]. Currently, my laboratory is interested in the themes of “determining light elements inside the Earth” and “understanding evolution of the Earth.” What was the Earth like long ago? How has the Earth changed during the past 4.6 billion years? Moving forward, our laboratory will continue to embrace new challenges and make cutting-edge discoveries in solid-earth science. Beginning from next week, we will study one of these cutting-edge topics: “the Earth and water.” Of course, water is an important substance which is a defining feature of the Earth. For example, if there were no water, life could not exist. On the other hand, if there were too much water, the Earth would be flooded. However, water may have had a profound effect on the evolution and formation process of the Earth. Moreover, water may be an important substance for clarifying the light elements which exists inside the Earth. From astronomers to researchers in high-pressure science, researchers from a wide range of fields are involved in the theme of “the Earth and water.” Today, this is a popular research field in which new discoveries are being made. Currently, there are still some topics which remain mired in the theoretical stages. However, this field is a case study for experiencing the dynamism of how science continues to advance and reveal the unknown. I hope that it will be an opportunity to convey the fun of science. Next week marks the start of our last lesson. Let's continue to give our best until the end of the course!!  