This week, we discussed how a mid-ocean ridge is a giant volcanic chain on the seafloor. Since mid-ocean ridges are composed of volcanoes, the temperature of seawater in surrounding areas is thought to be higher than other locations. In this section, we will learn about the relationship between life and hot water; that is, seawater which has been heated by the volcanic activity of mid-ocean ridges  The chemistry of hot water  At mid-ocean ridges, seawater is heated by magma. Seawater heated to 350°C spurts from pipe-shaped locations which are formed from deposits of sulfate and sulfide. Due to their shape, locations where seawater spurts are called “chimneys” (please look at the figure shown below!). Since pressure is greater on the seafloor than on land, seawater can exist without boiling even at temperatures exceeding 100°C. Hot water coming out of the chimneys appears black due to the presence of fine sulfide particles and is called “black smoker.”  Seawater becomes acidic due to the melting of magma volatile constituents such as H2S and CO2. Next, this acidic seawater dissolves K+, Ca2+, and SiO2 from surrounding rocks. The acidic seawater also dissolves heavy metals such as Ba, Fe, Mn, Cu and Zn. Furthermore, when the seawater exceeds 150°C, the Mg2+ and OH- contained in the seawater create altered minerals. Also, since almost all SO4- bonds with Ca2+ to become CaSO4, the amount of these constituents decreases when compared to normal seawater. Due to these effects, the composition of seawater near mid-ocean ridges where hot water is emitted differs significantly from seawater in other locations.  Hot water and life  Next, I would like to discuss topic with notable potential, although it has yet to become established theory. At mid-ocean ridges where hot water is emitted, the presence of hot water creates the presence of a great amount of elements which, together with water, are required for life. Moreover, it is believed that the ancestors of life today were thermophiles which thrived in hot environments. For these reasons, it is theorized that locations where hot water is emitted (in other words, locations near mid-ocean ridges) may have been one location where life originated. 