In section 2-2-1, we learned how scientists discovered that the seafloor is moving based on the results of analyzing the period in which the seafloor was formed. Now, how is it possible to determine the period in which the seafloor was formed? This section introduces three dating methods. Radioactive dating method Radioactive elements change into different elements after a certain period of time passes. This phenomenon is known as “radioactive decay.” Radioactive dating is a method which uses the phenomenon of radioactive decay to measure the formation period of rocks. In this lesson, we will learn about the potassium-argon dating method (K-Ar method) which uses substances undergoing radioactive decay from 40K to 40Ar. Rocks are composed from a variety of minerals. Each of these minerals takes in a different amount of K when being formed. Conversely, Ar is a gas and is not contained in rocks when they are formed by magma hardening. Accordingly, at the time when rocks were formed (T years ago), the quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar in each mineral is represented by the blue points shown in Figure 1. On the other hand, the quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar in rocks which can be obtained today reflects the result of radioactive decay from 40K to 40Ar occurring over a period of T years. When compared to the time at which the rocks were originally formed, 40K decreases and 40Ar increases. This results in a quantitative ratio like that shown by the red points in figure below. The ratio of radioactive decay from 40K to 40Ar is determined by the length of time. Therefore, we can determine when a rock was formed by measuring the current quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar. The horizontal axis represents the amount of 40K in the minerals, while the vertical axis represents the amount of 40Ar in the minerals. The quantity of 40K and 40Ar contained in minerals A, B, C, D, and E within the rock changes from blue points to red points over T years.  If a rock does not lose 40K and 40Ar from the time it is formed until the present day, the quantitative ratio of 40K and 40Ar for minerals contained in that rock should form a straight line. This straight line is called an “isochron.” The quantity of 40Ar in relation to 40K increases as time passes from the formation of the rock and the slope of the isochron increases. Dating methods utilizing the isochron slope are widely used in other radioactive dating methods, not just the K-Ar method.  Radiolarian dating method The period in which sedimentary rock was formed can be determined from fossils contained in that rock. In particular, the term “index fossils” is used to refer to fossils which provide detailed knowledge regarding the geological age of the location where the fossils were excavated. Dating methods using index fossils were widely used in the field of geology prior to the establishment of the radioactive dating method.  Radiolarians are a group of protozoans which appeared in the Cambrian Period of the Paleozoic Era. The shell and skeleton of radiolarians is composed of silicon dioxide and is easily fossilized. These fossils are found in locations throughout the world. Radiolarians quickly evolve to form variable skeletal appearances through the geologic time(figure below), which make them an extremely effective type of index fossil. Dating using radiolarians makes it possible to determine the period with a high degree of accuracy that is within about one million years or several hundred thousand years. Evolution of radiolarian (light microscopic images) with geologic ages. Names of radiolarian’s groups are also shown.  Source: Noritoshi Suzuki (Tohoku Univ.)  Geomagnetic field dating The Earth's magnetic field has changed in each period from ancient times until the present day. Through remanent magnetism, rocks retain information on the geomagnetic field at the time of their formation. Accordingly, if it is possible to use methods such as the aforementioned radioactive dating method or radiolarian dating method to determine the period in which rocks were formed, it is also possible to understanding changes in the past geomagnetic field. The curve formulated by using the direction of the past geomagnetic field to determine the position of the poles and summarizing that information by period is called “apparent polar wandering curve.” A continent has a unique apparent polar wandering path, because the continent individually moved in the past. It becomes possible to discuss how a continent moved in the past by drawing the apparent polar wandering path. Geomagnetic field dating is a method that uses remanent magnetism of a rock compared with the apparent polar wandering path of continent which includes the rock to determine the rock crystallization age. This method is useful when other dating methods such as radioactive dating and radiolarian dating are hard to be applied to the rock. APWP from present back to 200 Ma for (a) Africa, (b) Eurasia, (c) North America, and (d) India. Connected squares are APWPs for each continents and digit numbers are the ages. Reference: Besse, J. and Courtillot, V. (1991) Journal of Geophysical Research 96, 4029-4050.  