Hydrogen has recently been receiving much attention as light elements of the Earth's core. Planetary formation theory suggested that a large amount of water, much more than is in the oceans, could have been brought to the Earth during its accretion. Hydrogen is a strong siderophile element (see 3-1-5) and could be incorporated into the core as a consequence of a reaction between water and molten iron in a magma ocean [Okuchi, 1997 Science]. (Of course, as you learnt in 4-4-3, there are still many discussions about the light elements in the Earth's core.)  Scince hydrogen is a light element(s), it can account for around 30 atomic percent of all elements in the Earth's core. Therefore, property of FeHx≤1 are important to test the hypothesis. Three kinds of phase of FeHx~1  are reported so far.  Further study: Structure of FeHx~1 Red spheres indicates regular position of iron atom and blue spheres of hydrogen atom. Dot-surface sphere shows ideal radii of each atom. They are drown by VESTA, 3D visualisation program for crystal structure. a) dhcp: Double Hexagonal Closed Packed (dhcp) Structure, P63/mmc b) hcp: Hexagonal Closed Packed (hcp) Structure, P63/mmc c) fcc: Face Centered Cubic (fcc) Structure, Fmmcf. All of them are closed packed structure but stacking patterns of iron atoms are different; dhcp’s pattern is A, B, A, C, A, B, …, hcp’s pattern is A, B, A, B, …, and fcc’s pattern is A, B, C, A, B, C, A, …    However, the effect of hydrogen on the property of iron is not well known so far because it is difficult to determine experimentally. Now, Hirose lab is performing experiments on Fe-H and Fe-Si-H alloys. Following figure shows our experimental method.  We loaded FeSi or Fe into a diamond-anvil cell, and then liquid hydrogen was introduced to a sample chamber below 20 K. I took following picture from the side window of liquid hydrogen loading system during experiment. The white line near the top of the window was interface between H2 gas and H2 liquid. The sample chamber and diamond anvil was soaked into liquid hydrogen.  It is a up-to-date (and still undergoing) topic of high pressure geoscience. There are so many trial and error in experiment. However, we believe these studies will reveal surprising facts and could grant a lot of dreams to us. 