Are there any celestial bodies apart from earth that supports life? In order to answer this question, we have to consider various conditions on the surface of the celestial body, including the condition that allows the existence of life at a certain point in time, the condition that gives birth to life, and the condition that supports life, etc. Of the above three conditions, the first and the third are called ‘Habitable condition’ and ‘continuously habitable condition’ respectively (Kasting et al, 1993). Of these varying conditions, one condition in particular cannot be missing. That is ‘the existence of liquid water on the surface of the celestial body.’ Liquids are absolutely essential for life as a means of transporting substances, for chemical reactions, etc. In particular, hydrogen and oxygen, the main constituent elements of water, exist in abundance in the solar composition (learnt in week 3) and water exists as a very stable liquid in a wide range of temperatures. Furthermore, as the water molecule is polarized, liquid water is excellent as a place for chemical reactions. In actual fact, our human bodies are made up predominantly of water! So, where do the “habitable” celestial bodies with such liquid water on their planet surfaces exist? We call this region the “Habitable Zone”. (Once you know this, it will come in handy in “the search for E.T.”) Assume a planet made up of rocks similar to Earth which has an atmosphere. In addition, assume that the planet already has sufficient water as water is ubiquitous. Then, the problem will be whether the planet’s surface will be at the “temperature where water is liquid (0-100℃ at 1 atmospheric pressure) .” What determines the planet’s surface temperature? The answer is “the distance from the central star” and “atmospheric volume and composition.”  Firstly, when the distance to the central star is close, … Hot! The heat of the central star reaches the planet as radiation, namely light. Although light emitted from the central star radiates in space, its strength reduces in inverse proportion to the square of the distance from the central star. As such, the temperature of the planet’s surface gets hotter the closer it is to the central star, and gets colder the further it is from the central star. The diagram above (from Wikipedia; https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable_zone) is a schematic representation of the habitable zone. The central star does not necessarily have the same “property” as the sun. Smaller stars are not as bright (hot), and bigger stars shine more strongly. (What type of habitable planets exist around what type of central stars? Find out more in Notes 5-4-4) Next, the planet’s atmospheric volume and composition vary widely by planet. However, the most important thing is the amount of “greenhouse gases” in the atmosphere. You probably know that “greenhouse gases” is recently becoming a big problem even for our Earth. “Greenhouse gases”, such as carbon dioxide, methane gas and water (water vapor), absorb infrared rays emitted from the earth’s surface and prevent heat from escaping into space. If you would like to know how strong the effect is, just look at our neighboring planet Venus! (For the difference between Venus and Earth, please refer to Notes 5-4-3.) In addition, depending on the composition and volume of atmosphere, the amount and composition of clouds change, as does the exoplanet’s reflectivity (albedo). The higher the albedo, (fundamentally) light is reflected from the central star and thus the smaller the effect that warms the planet up. By considering these two conditions at the same time, we can deduce the habitable zone. Of course, we will not know the exoplanet’s atmospheric volume and composition, but if we know the size of its central star (property) and the distance the planet is from it, we can infer whether that planet is within the habitable zone. In reality, many exoplanets thought to be within the habitable zone have been found. On the other hand, this habitable zone is not everything. In our solar system, there are “icy satellites”. Despite having their surface covered with thick ice, they have vast oceans underneath. These satellites orbit around planets like Jupiter and Saturn and have similar sizes as, or are slightly bigger, than Earth’s moon. In reality, from the cracks in the ice of these satellites, the spraying of internal sea water has been found and thus the existence of life is anticipated. It is said that Enceladus has the possibility that life exist there. ReferencesKasting, J.F., Whitmire, D.P., Reynolds, R.T., 1993. Habitable Zones around Main Sequence Stars. Icarus 101, 108-128, doi: 10.1006/icar.1993.1010.Abe, Y. 2009. “Frontier seminar/text” Origin and evolution of habitable planets, no. 1. Journal of the Japanese Society for Planetary Sciences Vol. 18, No. 4, 194-215. 