 Venus is next to Earth. Venus is a planet made up of the same rocks as Earth and is of a similar size too. However, its surface is covered by thick clouds of carbon dioxide. It rains sulfuric acid and the temperature near its ground surface reaches up to 500℃! It is definitely not a planet that supports life. So, why is the environments this different for Earth and Venus? Recall the content we learnt in 5-4-2. The habitable zone, in other words ‘regions where liquid water exists on the surfaces’, is determined by the planet’s distance to the central star (namely the sun), and the volume and composition of the atmosphere. As you know, Venus revolves on an orbital path closer to the sun than Earth (thus Venus is close to the sun and i.e. one can only see dawn and evening there), and the radiation from the sun is great. The main constituent of Venus’s atmosphere is the carbon dioxide that causes a strong greenhouse effect! Thus, even though Earth and Venus are brother stars that are very similar structurally, they have very different environments. In fact, this kind of “Venus type” and “Earth type” classification is probably common in the universe. Hamano et al. (2013) simulated the evolution of planets such as Earth and Venus from their initial formation, and showed that the fates of planets can be divided into two types based on their distance from the central star. For both the “Earth type” and “Venus type”, when the planets were initially formed, the surfaces melted as learnt in our lesson. Then, the melted ground surfaces and the planets’ atmospheres mutually interact to form the atmospheric structures and compositions, etc. Everything was consistently simulated. By doing so, for a planet which has an orbit path out of a certain boundary a certain boundary, the almost-melted ground surface cools and solidify and forms oceans similar to Earth. However, for a planet which follows an orbit path on the inside the boundary a certain boundary, its surface does not really solidify and the water is all lost to outer space. …, this is Venus. For more details, please refer to: http://old.elsi.jp/en/press_release/ References Hamano, K., Abe, Y., Genda, H., 2013. Emergence of two types of terrestrial planet on solidification of magma ocean. Nature 497, 607-610, doi: 10. 1038/nature12163. 